==== TEXT ====
contents lists available at sciencedirect applied energy journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/apenergy a knowledge-informed optimization framework for performance-based generative design of sustainable buildings zhaoji wu a, zhe wang a,b,*, jack c.p. cheng a, *, helen h.l. kwok c a department of civil and environmental engineering, the hong kong university of science and technology, hong kong, china b hkust shenzhen-hong kong collaborative innovation research institute, futian, shenzhen, china c institute for the environment, the hong kong university of science and technology, hong kong, china h i g h l i g h t s  a knowledge graph for performance-based generative design (pgd-kg) is proposed.  automated pgd-kg generation algorithm from parametric design models is developed.  reasoning for automated compliance checking & performance evaluation is developed.  the pgd-kg optimization framework narrows the solution space of optimization.  the pgd-kg optimization framework saves computational time by 73.25%. a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t keywords: generative design knowledge graph sustainable building optimization building performance long computational time poses a significant obstacle to the practical utilization of performance-based generative design (pgd) in the early design stage. this study proposes a knowledge-informed pgd optimization framework for sustainable buildings, aimed to mitigate the time issue by integrating a knowledge graph (kg) into pgd. the first component of the framework is a pgd-kg schema that represents the topological relations within pgd. a generation method is then proposed for automatically developing pgd-kg models from parametric design models that are enhanced with semantic information. furthermore, cross-domain reasoning algorithms are developed to enable automated compliance checking and performance evaluation based on regulatory re- quirements and sustainable design strategies, respectively. the proposed framework is applied to a design project focused on optimizing module layout to minimize cooling energy and maximize daylighting. the results demonstrate that the proposed framework can generate a satisfactory number of pareto-optimal solutions while reducing computational time by 73.25% compared with the general optimization framework. 1. introduction buildings exert a substantial influence on the environment, signifi- cantly contributing to worldwide energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and resource depletion. specifically, in 2021, buildings were responsible for 34% of total final energy consumption and 37% of global energy and process emissions. [1]. the necessity to address the envi- ronmental repercussions of the built environment has propelled a notable surge in the demand for sustainable buildings. this growing momentum stems from the pressing need to mitigate such impacts effectively. according to the macleamy curve [2], it is less expensive to make a change in the earlier stages of a project. consequently, integrating sustainable performance considerations early in the design process of buildings is crucial [3]. early design is a complex task that involves multiple factors, e.g., building programs, regulatory requirements, client expectations, and the environmental impacts resulting from the built environment [4]. building shapes have significant impacts on sustainable performance and various parameters related to building shapes should be focused on during the early design stage [5]. performance-based generative design (pgd) is a powerful generative method that helps mitigate the complexity of early design by using computational methods to generate design cases in various parameters and shapes while integrating sus- tainable performance considerations. it takes into account the * corresponding author at: department of civil and environmental engineering, the hong kong university of science and technology, hong kong, china. e-mail addresses: cezhewang@ust.hk (z. wang), cejcheng@ust.hk (j.c.p. cheng). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.123318 received 22 december 2023; received in revised form 20 april 2024; accepted 24 april 2024 appliedenergy367(2024)123318availableonline9may20240306-2619/2024elsevierltd.allrightsreserved. z. wu et al. optimization of building performance by considering factors such as energy use, daylighting, thermal comfort, structural performance, etc. [4]. the current pgd framework relies on rule-based form generation, extensive performance evaluations through large-scale simulations and metaheuristic algorithms for optimizing designs, and the computational requirements of the current pgd framework are quite demanding in nature [6]. wang et al. [7] demonstrated that it took 70 h to identify the optimal design, which is unacceptable for early design stages, where prompt conceptualization, modeling, and feedback are crucial. there- fore, reducing the computational time to an acceptable level is the ur- gent demand of pgd of sustainable buildings, and a new pgd framework that can generate optimized design scenarios within a reasonable computational timeframe is needed. several studies [8,9] have emphasized the importance of knowledge- driven generative design processes. for example, design knowledge from experts or architects could help minimize the size of the solution space [8] and customize the optimization process [9]. various domain knowledge of sustainable building design is accumulated in the existing literature (such as [1012]), which provides ample knowledge sources to be utilized in pgd of sustainable buildings. however, no study has yet explored the integration of knowledge into pgd. a knowledge graph (kg) presents knowledge as a set of concepts within specific domains as well as the relations among the concepts [13], and could hence serve as a powerful tool for knowledge-driven generative design processes, including pgd, offering advantages such as interoperability, cross- domain linking, and logical inference [14]. however, significant questions must be answered to integrate a kg into pgd: how can we effectively capture and represent the topological relations and functionalities inherent in pgd using kgs? how can we generate kg models specifically tailored for pgd from design models enriched with semantic information? furthermore, how can we leverage these kg models to enhance the optimization framework of pgd and minimize computational resource requirements? to address these critical issues, this study proposes a knowledge- informed optimization framework for pgd of sustainable buildings. the first component of the framework is a pgd-kg schema that repre- sents the topological relations within pgd. a generation method is then proposed for automatically developing pgd-kg models from parametric design models that are enhanced with semantic information. further, cross-domain reasoning algorithms are developed to enable automated compliance checking and performance evaluation based on regulatory requirements and sustainable design strategies, respectively. the pro- posed framework is applied to a design project focused on optimizing module layout to minimize cooling energy and maximize daylighting. the primary contribution of this study lies in the integration of human domain knowledge, particularly sustainable design strategies, into the optimization procedure of pgd. the following sections in this paper are organized as follows. in section 2, previous studies related to the pgd optimization framework and knowledge representation in the early design stage are presented and analyzed. in section 3, the innovative knowledge-informed opti- mization framework is proposed. in section 4, the proposed framework is implemented in a design project to illustrate how the framework works practically. experiments are conducted to evaluate the perfor- mance of the framework, and results and discussion are given. in section 5, the main conclusions and findings of this study are summarized. 2. literature review 2.1. pgd optimization framework generative design employs computational techniques and algo- rithms to produce a diverse array of design options [15], and pgd sets building performance as the optimization objective that guides the di- rection of the generation [4]. many studies have utilized pgd as a towards powerful to generate building design schemes tool sustainability goals. for example, lakhdari et al. [16] took a middle school classroom in a hot and dry region as their case for study. the window-to-wall ratio, glazing type, and wall type were optimized to improve daylighting and thermal comfort while reducing the annual energy loads. saryazdi et al. [17] optimized the building envelopes, internal gains, and air conditioning systems of a residential building using an artificial neural network as the surrogate simulation model and a multi-objective genetic algorithm as the optimization algorithm. sig- nificant reductions in energy consumption, hours of discomfort, and carbon emissions were achieved, by 39.3%, 62.8%, and 40.5% respec- tively, compared with the base case. the current pgd framework is based on rule-based form generation, large-scale simulations for performance evaluation, and metaheuristic algorithm-based searches for optimized designs. the nature of the cur- rent framework leads to a substantial demand for computational power, and the computational time represents a significant challenge impeding the advancement of pgd [18]. table 1 lists studies on pgd that have reported the computational time of their pgd optimization. the computational time ranged from 6 h to 81 h, which is unacceptable for early design stages. thus, some studies have focused on improving the optimization framework to reduce the computational time. for example, su and yan [9] proposed an offline simulation with a divide and conquer (d&c) method in which similar simulation results can be reused, while ramallo-gonzalez and coley [19] developed sequential optimization by dividing the optimization step into coarse evaluation and precise eval- uation steps. wang et al. [7] introduced the hierarchical structuring of design variables to avoid infeasible solutions and thereby reduce redundant simulations, and choudhary et al. [20] conducted hierar- chical structuring of optimization objectives by passing the design var- iables to the next layer for optimizing sub-targets once the current layer of objectives was satisfied. these studies made efforts to enhance the pgd optimization framework but did not deviate from the computa- tional nature that characterizes the framework., i.e., demanding a sub- stantial computational power to conduct form generation, performance simulations, and search for optimized designs. for example, a large number of simulations were still involved, and it took approximately 70 h for each optimization run in wang et al.'s study [7]. the long computational time primarily stems from the simulation programs used. thus, surrogate models have been proposed to alleviate the issue of high computational demand. the idea behind surrogate modeling is to emulate an expensive high-fidelity model, namely a building simulation model, using a statistical model [21]. the typical process of developing a surrogate model includes problem definition, base model implementation, database generation, model fitting, and model validation [21]. however, the database generation step is still time-consuming. for example, magnier and haghighat [22] took three weeks to generate the database underlying the surrogate model, which indicates that the computational time is still an issue to be solved in using surrogate models in the pgd framework. consequently, an inno- vative pgd framework that can alleviate the computation time is still needed. 2.2. knowledge representation in the early design stage researchers have emphasized the importance of knowledge-driven generative design processes. machairas et al. (2014) [8] stated that the best tools and algorithms for the building design problem are the ones that enable researchers to use their expert knowledge to minimize the size of the solution space or drive the search to the right direction (p. 105). meanwhile, su and yan (2015) [9] claimed that we should utilize architects' design knowledge to customize the optimization pro- cess, a process that would significantly save in computing time and eventually make optimization practical for architectural design (p. 467). although some researchers have recognized the importance of design knowledge, no study has yet explored the integration of knowl- edge into pgd. appliedenergy367(2024)1233182 z. wu et al. table 1 summary of studies on pgd reporting computational time. study year building decision variable objective [23] 2005 a single-story office building [24] 2015 [25] 2016 a single-story residential building a high-rise building [26] 2020 a high-rise building building orientation aspect ratio window type wwr wall type and layer roof type and layer window size and glazing material building shape (with control points) building shape (with control points) [27] 2020 rural tourism buildings building shape wwr [28] 2023 high-rise office buildings [29] 2023 an office building [30] 2023 two residential multifamily buildings building shape (with control points) building height photovoltaic panel interaction height wind-turbine interaction height building shape (including an atrium) wwr building orientation shade building typology building orientation optimization algorithm computational time moga 39 h in total nsga-ii nsga-ii rbfopt cma-es spea-2 56 h in total 81 h in total simulation using cfd: 45 h in total simulation using ffd: 6 h in total 1.5 h for one simulation and 1 d for one generation rbfmopt nsga-ii rbfmopt: 22 h in total nsga-ii: 48 h in total life cycle cost life cycle environmental impact annual energy use daylighting structural displacement construction cost visual perception structural analysis energy consumption daylighting thermal comfort performance eui solar energy potential wind energy potential structural displacement thermal comfort daylighting solar radiation heating demand cooling demand spea-2 hype 28.65 h in total nsga-ii 23.75 h in total * acronyms in this table: cfd: computational fluid dynamic; cma-es: covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy; ffd: fast fluid dynamic; hype: hyper- volume estimation algorithm for multi-objective optimization; moga: multi-objective genetic algorithm; nsga-ii: non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm ii; rbfopt: radial basis function optimization; rbfmopt: radial basis function muti-objective optimization; spea-2: strength pareto evolutionary algorithm-2; wwr: window-to-wall ratio. knowledge representation is a domain-specific issue, and various kg models have been developed to capture domain-specific knowledge related to buildings. kg models that could be applied to early design stages include ifcowl, building topology ontology (bot), brick schema, and the simmodel ontology [31], as listed in table 2. ifcowl serves as an ontological representation of industry foundation classes (ifcs), which are essentially a translation of ifc data in express format [32]. bot is a minimal ontology model that describes the core topo- logical concepts within a building and focuses on topological relations among building elements [33]. brick schema provides detailed de- scriptions of physical, logical and virtual assets in buildings and the relations between them (especially heating, ventilation, and air condi- tioning (hvac) systems) [34],and the simmodel ontology focuses on data integration for building energy simulations and offers an interop- erable solution for connecting building simulation data with other building information [35]. currently, however, no domain-specific kg model is available for pgd during the early design stages. although the aforementioned models could be repurposed to assist in knowledge representation for pgd, there is a lack of study on how to leverage the expert knowledge (e.g., sustainable design strategies) efficiently and automatically, and how to utilize the kg models to improve the pgd optimization process. in summary, computational time is a major challenge that prevents the implementation of pgd in the early design stage. to address this challenge, there is a need for an innovative pgd framework that can mitigate the computational time constraints. while researchers have suggested that incorporating knowledge could enhance the pgd framework, no studies have been conducted on the integration of knowledge into pgd. the objective of this study is to provide a knowledge-informed optimization framework for pgd of sustainable buildings. the specific contributions of this study are as follows: 1) we propose a kg schema, referred to as pgd-kg, to effectively capture and represent the topological relations and functionalities within pgd; 2) we propose a generation method to automatically develop pgd-kg models from parametric design models that have been enriched with semantic information; 3) we propose a set of algorithms for automated compli- ance checking and building models evaluation based on cross-domain reasoning using the pgd-kg models; and 4) we evaluate the perfor- mance of the knowledge-informed optimization framework in terms of accuracy and computational time. table 2 summary of kg models that could be applied to early design stages. name ifcowl [32] bot [33] brick schema [34] simmodel [35] year 2016 2019 2016 2014 scope comprehensive description of geometric and semantic entities and properties of buildings and building-related components. topological relations among building elements. physical, logical and virtual assets in buildings and the relations between them. data integration and exchange of building energy simulations. appliedenergy367(2024)1233183 z. wu et al. 3. methodology 3.1. knowledge-informed optimization framework to introduce knowledge to the pgd framework seamlessly, a kg model for pgd and its applications are proposed. firstly, a kg schema, named pgd-kg, is proposed to capture and represent the topological relations and functionalities in pgd. a detailed description of the pgd- kg schema is given in section 3.2. secondly, a generation method that develops the kg models within the pgd-kg schema is proposed. a detailed description of the generation method is shown in section 3.3. thirdly, cross-domain reasoning algorithms for automated compliance checking and performance evaluation are proposed. detailed de- scriptions of the reasoning algorithms are given in section 3.4 and fig. 1. (a) overview of the knowledge-informed optimization framework for pgd of sustainable buildings. (b) the general pgd optimization framework for comparison. appliedenergy367(2024)1233184 z. wu et al. section 3.5 respectively. the final step is to translate the kg model into the building simulation model, which is not the focus of this study. details about the methods that translate kg models into building simulation models (e.g., building energy models) can be found in [36]. fig. 1 (a) shows the overview of the knowledge-informed optimiza- tion framework for the pgd of sustainable buildings. different to the general pgd optimization framework (fig. 1 (b)) [4], knowledge is in- tegrated into the performance evaluation part of the proposed framework. fig. 2 illustrates the detailed workflow of the knowledge-informed optimization framework, wherein each iteration represents a case with a distinct set of design parameters. firstly, a parametric design model is developed by designers according to the design parameters and form generation rules, which is generally the first step in pgd. secondly, the pgd-kg model is generated based on the generation method (section 3.3) from the parametric design model with enriched semantic information. thirdly, the reasoning process for compliance checking (section 3.4) is conducted. if the case cannot meet all regulatory re- quirements, it will be discarded, and a new iteration begins. fourthly, for the cases that pass the compliance check, performance evaluation (section 3.5) is conducted to check whether the case meets all the sus- tainable design targets under a given threshold, a user-decided hyper- parameter to determine the selection scale of cases. a case that satisfies all the targets is subsequently translated into the simulation model. otherwise, the case is discarded, and a new iteration begins. finally, a performance simulation is conducted, and performance metrics are ob- tained. meta-heuristic optimization algorithms (e.g., genetic algorithm (ga) [37] and particle swarm optimization (pso) [38]) are used to optimize the design parameters according to the performance metrics, as in the general pgd framework. fig. 2. flowchart of the knowledge-informed optimization framework. appliedenergy367(2024)1233185 z. wu et al. fig. 3. kg model schema for pgd (pgd-kg schema). 3.2. pgd-kg schema previously, we proposed an ontology model for building energy modeling [36] which integrates four domains (weather, building, in- ternal heat gain and hvac system) by using existing ontology models (brick schema [34] and bot [33]) with necessary extensions. the ontology model [36] supports automated thermal zoning and building energy modeling. to enhance the generalizability of the proposed kg model and to reduce the need for repetitive model development, our kg model schema for pgd leverages the ontology model from [36], with necessary extensions implemented to comprehensively capture and represent the topological relations and functionalities in pgd. fig. 3 shows the overview of the pgd-kg schema, which covers five key do- mains in pgd: building, weather, internal heat gain, hvac system, and regulation and strategy. the components beyond the existing ontology models (brick schema and bot) are assigned a prefix pgd. the pgd-kg schema represented in turtle syntax [39] can be found in appendix d. fig. 4 depicts the components of the pgd-kg schema within the building domain. bot [33] is adopted, with extensions to describe the building topology. the class bot:site (fig. 4 (a)) is assigned the property pgd:has area_m2 to support the calculation of site-area-related indices, e. g., plot ratio. the class bot:building (fig. 4 (a)) stores the information on building types and building directions, and bot:space (fig. 4 (b)) de- scribes spatial zones, and stores the geometric information (ceiling heights, floor areas, volumes, etc.) of the zones. the topology property pgd:hasairflow is assigned to the class bot:space to describe the topology relation of airflow among spaces. each bot:space is connected with the class pgd:spacetype that indicates the space's function and the activity level of occupants in the space. the class bot:element describes building surfaces (walls, floors, roofs, ceilings and air walls), fenestration surfaces (windows and doors), and shading surfaces. topology relations in a building surface (fig. 4 (c)) contain information on surface types, geometries (surface areas, vertex coordinates and normal vectors), boundary conditions (whether the surface is exposed to the outdoor environment), construction and ma- terials (thermal properties, optical properties, etc.). the topology re- lations in a fenestration surface (fig. 4 (d)) are similar to those in a building surface but the material properties are different. air walls are introduced to describe large openings between two spaces, as commonly adopted in modeling software, e.g., energyplus [40]. in the pgd-kg schema, air walls (fig. 4 (e)) are regarded as a kind of building sur- face with the construction airboundary, which is aligned with the setting in energyplus [40]. in a shading surface, the topology relations (fig. 4 (f)) are also similar to those in a building surface, but the properties only contain information on the vertex coordinates, construction and materials. the components of the pgd-kg schema in the domains of weather, internal heat gain and hvac system are shown in appendix a. minor revisions are made compared with the previous ontology model [36], and details of these components can be found in the section 3.1 of [36]. the kg components within the regulation and strategy domain will be illustrated in section 3.4. 3.3. pgd-kg model generation in current pgd practices, designers create and manipulate para- metric design models with parametric design tools (e.g., grasshopper for rhino [41] and dynamo for revit [42]). a parametric design model appliedenergy367(2024)1233186pgd:weatherpgd:tmyweatherpgd:historicalweatherpgd:forecastweatherrdfs:subclassofbrick:haslocationrdfs:subclassofrdfs:subclassofbot:sitebot:hasbuildingbot:buildingbot:hasstoreybot:storeybot:hasspacebot:spacebot:haselementbot:elementpgd:spacetypepgd:activitylevelpgd:hasspacetypepgd:hasactivitylevelpgd:constructionpgd:materialpgd:hasconstructionpgd:hasmaterialbrick:electrical_equipmentbrick:haslocationpgd:powerpgd:haspowerpgd:schedulepgd:hasschedulebrick:occupancybrick:haslocationpgd:hasschedulepgd:idealloadsairsystembrick:feedsbrick:cooling_temperature_setpointbrick:heating_temperature_setpointbrick:haspointbrick:haspointpgd:hasschedulepgd:hasschedulebrick schemabotpgdpropertylegend:hvac systemweatherbuildingdomaininternalheat gainbrick:lighting_equipmentbrick:haslocationpgd:haspowerpgd:hasscheduleregulation andstrategypgd:constraintpgd:indexpgd:hasindexpgd:limitvaluex(xsd: double)true(orfalse)(xsd:boolean)pgd:satisfiedy(xsd: double)pgd:actualvaluepgd:climatezonepgd:hasclimatezone z. wu et al. belongs to the class of geometric models that describe building geometry in computational geometry and topology in geometric modeling and graphics [43]. however, for conducting design evaluation tasks such as compliance checking and performance evaluation, additional semantic information, such as building space types and surface materials, which is not encompassed within the geometric model alone is required. a kg provides a solution to the cross-domain integration of geometric and semantic information in pgd. in this section, a pgd-kg model genera- tion method is proposed based on parametric design models with se- mantic enrichment. fig. 5 depicts the workflow of the pgd-kg model generation. firstly, spaces and surfaces in the parametric design models are translated into individuals under the classes bot:space and bot:element in the pgd-kg model. secondly, properties of the spaces and surfaces, e.g., volumes and floor areas of spaces, types, areas, vertex coordinates and normal vectors of surfaces, are identified or calculated. the corresponding kg properties (pgd:hasvolume_m3, pgd:hasfloorarea_m2, pgd:hassurfacetype, pgd:hasarea_m2, pgd:hasvertex1x_m, pgd:hasnormalvectorx_m, etc.) are also generated. thirdly, semantic information, e.g., weather, space type, is translated into individuals under the classes pgd:weather, pgd:space- type, etc. of the pgd-kg model. the semantic information is derived from default templates, which could be reused in various projects, or it is manually input by designers for specific cases. finally, knowledge inference is conducted based on the generated pgd-kg model, and fig. 4. pgd-kg components within the building domain. appliedenergy367(2024)1233187 z. wu et al. fig. 4. (continued). appliedenergy367(2024)1233188 z. wu et al. fig. 4. (continued). appliedenergy367(2024)1233189 z. wu et al. fig. 5. workflow of pgd-kg model generation from parametric design models and semantic enrichment. under the class bot:element (line14, algorithm 1). the surface types can be identified automatically according to predetermined rules (lines 1617, algorithm 1). for example, a building surface will be identified as a ceiling or roof if the angle between the z-axis and the surface's  ). semantic normal vector is no more than a limited degree (e.g., 30 information on construction is added as kg properties of the building surface individuals (line 18, algorithm 1). geometric properties of building surfaces, e.g., surface areas, vertex coordinates and normal vectors, are calculated and added as kg properties of the building sur- face individuals (lines 15, 2024, algorithm 1). geometric properties of spaces, e.g., floor areas and space volumes, are calculated and added as kg properties of the space individuals (lines 2632, algorithm 1). fenestration surfaces in the parametric design models are translated and interpreted in lines 3446, algorithm 1. each fenestration surface in the parametric design models is identified as one individual under the class bot:element (line 35, algorithm 1). semantic information on surface types and construction is added as kg properties of the fenestration surface individuals (lines 3637, algorithm 1). geometric properties of the fenestration surface, e.g., surface areas, vertex coordinates and normal vectors, are calculated and added as kg properties of the fenestration surface individuals (lines 3843, algorithm 1). if all the vertices of a fenestration surface are located on a building surface, the fenestration surface is regarded as attached to the building surface, and the attaching relations are extracted and the property pgd:hassubele- ment is added between the building surface and the fenestration surface (lines 4445, algorithm 1). shading surfaces in the parametric design models are translated and interpreted in lines 4752, algorithm 1. each shading surface in the parametric design models is identified as one individual under the class bot:element (line 48, algorithm 1). the geo- metric property of the shading surface, namely, the surface vertex co- ordinates, is calculated and added as a kg property of the shading surface individuals (lines 4950, algorithm 1), and semantic informa- tion on construction is added (line 51, algorithm 1). algorithm 1. pgd-kg model generation from parametric design models with enriched semantics. fig. 6. example of dividing a building surface. boundary conditions and topology relations are supplemented to the pgd-kg model. algorithm 1 shows the pgd-kg model generation from parametric design models with enriched semantic information. spaces and building surfaces in the parametric design models are translated and interpreted in lines 233, algorithm 1. each space in the parametric design models is identified as one individual under the class bot:space (line 3, algo- rithm 1). semantic information, e.g., occupancy, equipment, lighting, and hvac, is added as kg properties of the space individuals (lines 48, algorithm 1). all the surfaces of the space are extracted (line 9, algo- rithm 1) and are divided according to their adjacent objects (lines 1011, algorithm 1). fig. 6 depicts one example of dividing a building surface, in which a surface behind the main bedroom (highlighted in red) is divided into three surfaces that are adjacent to the corridor, adjacent to the living room and exposed to the outdoor environment respectively. existing tools (e.g., intersect solids of ladybug tools for grasshopper [44]) can be applied to divide the surface (line 11, algo- rithm 1). each divided surface is identified as one individual component appliedenergy367(2024)12331810 z. wu et al. appliedenergy367(2024)12331811 input: parametric design model mp, schema-only kg model mk, semantic information including space_type, construction, occupancy, equipment, lighting, hvac, etc. output: instance-enriched kg model mk 1 wall_ls[ ](and floor_ls[ ], ceiling_ls[ ], etc.)  [ ] 2 for each space in mp do 3 space  bot:space 4 add (space, pgd:spacetype, space_type) to mk 5 add (occupancy, brick:haslocation, space) to mk 6 add (equipment, brick:haslocation, space) to mk 7 add (lighting, brick:haslocation, space) to mk 8 add (hvac, brick:feeds, space) to mk 9 space_surface_ls[ ]  explode space into space_surfaces 10 for each space_surface in space_surface_ls[ ] do 11 building_surface_ls[ ].append(dividesurface(space_surface)) 12 end for 13 for each building_surface in building_surface_ls[ ]do 14 building_surface  bot:element 15 normal_vector (cid:277) calculatenormalvector(building_surface) 16 surface_type  identifysurfacetype(building_surface) 17 add (building_surface, pgd:surfacetype, surface_type) to mk 18 add (building_surface, pgd:hasconstruction, construction) to mk 19 wall_ls[ ](or floor_ls[ ], ceiling_ls[ ], etc.).append(building_surface) 20 surface_area  calculatearea(building_surface) 21 add (building_surface, pgd:hasarea_m2, surface_area) to mk add semantic information, including occupancy, equipment, lighting, and hvac. extract space surfaces and divide them according to their adjacent objects. identify surface types. add sematic information on construction. calculate normal vectors of building surfaces. calculate and add the building surface property of surface area. define each building surface as one individual of bot:element. define each space as one individual of bot:space. 22vertex_coordinate getvertex(building_surface)23add (building_surface, pgd:hasxyzvertex{i}_m, vertex_coordinate) to mk, i= 1, 2, ...24add (building_surface, pgd:hasnormalvector{i}_m, normal_vector) to mk, i= x, y, z25end for26floor_area  027forfloor_surfacein floor_ls[ ] do28floor_area+ calculatearea(floor_surface)29end for30add (space, pgd:hasfloorarea_m2, floor_area) to mk31space_volume calculatevolume(space)32add (space, pgd:hasvolume_m3, surface_area) to mk33end for34foreach fenestration_surfacein mpdo35fenestration_surfacebot:element36add (fenestration_surface, pgd:hassurfacetype, surface_type) to mk37add (fenestration_surface, pgd:hasconstruction, construction) to mk38surface_area calculatearea(fenestration_surface)39add (fenestration_surface, pgd:hasarea_m2, surface_area) to mk40vertex_coordinate getvertex(fenestration_surface)41add (fenestration_surface, pgd:hasxyzvertex{i}_m, vertex_coordinate) to mk, i= 1, 2, ...42normal_vector(cid:277)calculatenormalvector(fenestration_surface)43add (fenestration_surface, pgd:hasnormalvector{i}_m, normal_vector) to mk, i= x, y, z44building_surface  findattachingsurface(fenestration_surface)45add (building_surface, pgd:hassubelement, fenestration_surface) to mk46end forcalculate and add the building surface property of vertexcoordinate and normal vector.calculate and add the space property of floor area and volume.identify each fenestration surface in the parametric design models is as one individual of bot:element.add semantic information onsurface type and construction.calculate and add the fenestration surfaceproperty ofsurface areas, vertex coordinates and normal vectors(cid:17)find the building surfaces that the fenestration surfaces are attached to.47foreach shading_surfacein mpdo48shading_surfacebot:element49vertex_coordinate getvertex(shading_surface)50add (shading_surface, pgd:hasxyzvertex{i}_m, vertex_coordinate) to mk, i= 1, 2, ...51add (shading_surface, pgd:hasconstruction, construction) to mk52end fordefine each shading surface as one individual of bot:element.calculate and add the shading surfaceproperty ofsurface vertex coordinates.add semantic information onconstruction. z. wu et al. to fully support the kg-based reasoning for compliance checking and performance evaluation, other knowledge, such as boundary con- ditions and airflow topology relations, is needed. this implicit knowl- edge is inferred from the generated pgd-kg model with support of the sparql protocol and rdf query language (sparql) [45] and se- mantic web rule language (swrl) [46], the query and reasoning lan- guages for kgs. algorithm 2 shows the inference algorithm for boundary conditions (lines 217, algorithm 2) and airflow topology relations (lines 1820, algorithm 2). in this study, outdoor surfaces are defined as building or fenestration surfaces that are exposed to outside environ- mental conditions (e.g., sun exposure and wind exposure), which is aligned with the definition in energy simulation tools e.g., energyplus [40]. for building surfaces, surfaces attached to each other are identified first (lines 25, algorithm 2). a building surface to which another surface is attached is identified as an indoor surface (lines 46, algo- rithm 2), and otherwise, an outdoor surface (lines 78, algorithm 2). for fenestration surfaces, the number of walls to which the surfaces are attached is calculated first (line 12, algorithm 2) by implementing the sparql-based reasoning algorithm given in algorithm 3 in appendix b. if the fenestration surface has only one attached building surface, it will be regarded as an outdoor surface (lines 1314, algorithm 2), and otherwise, as an indoor surface (lines 1516, algorithm 2). airflow topology relations are obtained (lines 1920, algorithm 2) by the swrl-based reasoning given in algorithm 4 in appendix b, and three kinds (airflow between a space and a fenestration surface, airflow be- tween a space and an air wall, and airflow between an air wall and its adjacent air wall) can be extracted. fig. 7 depicts an example of airflow topology relations in a part of a building after the inference. algorithm 2. knowledge inference of boundary conditions and airflow topology relations. component and a set of kg-based cross-domain reasoning algorithms for compliance checking. fig. 8 shows the kg component for compliance checking in the pgd-kg schema. the class pgd:constriant describes the constraints specified by the building codes and standards, and the class pgd:index indicates the index that should be calculated and inspected for code compliance. an example of a height limit is shown in fig. 8, wherein the upper limit of the building height is preset and the actual height is calculated by the reasoning of the pgd-kg model. the satis- faction of the height limit constraint can be determined by comparing the actual height with the prescribed height limit through reasoning, and the property pgd:satisfied is then assigned to indicate whether the constraint has been met or not. the specific algorithms used for reasoning will be further elaborated in the subsequent paragraphs. to illustrate how the reasoning algorithms achieve automated compliance checking, four regulatory requirements, height limit, per- centage of site coverage, plot ratio and site boundary, are taken as an example in this section, and these requirements are applied to the illustrative example in section 4. table 3 summarizes the limit values of the height limit, percentage of site coverage and plot ratio set out in the building (planning) regulations of hong kong [48] and the project- specific requirement of the site boundary used in the illustrative example. to conduct compliance checking in the knowledge-informed opti- mization framework, the first step is to retrieve relevant data from the pgd-kg model and calculate the actual values of the constraint indices using the reasoning rules. algorithms 58 (listed in appendix b) show the reasoning algorithms in sparql for the actual height, percentage of site coverage, plot ratio and site boundary respectively. the reasoning algorithm for actual height (algorithm 5) obtains the maximum of the z coordinates of the surface vertices as the height of the building. in the reasoning algorithm for actual percentage of site coverage (algorithm 3.4. reasoning algorithms for compliance checking in early design stages, compliance checking plays a crucial role in verifying the adherence of building designs to regulatory requirements and compliance with pertinent codes and standards [47]. to integrate compliance checking into pgd, we propose in this section a kg 6), the site area is retrieved (lines 3 and 4, algorithm 6) and the floor area of the ground floor is calculated by the sum of the query results of the floor areas of all the spaces on the ground floor (lines 612, algo- rithm 6). finally, the actual percentage of site coverage is calculated (line 14, algorithm 6). the reasoning algorithm for the actual plot ratio (algorithm 7) is similar to that for the actual percentage of site coverage. appliedenergy367(2024)12331812input: instance-enriched kg model mkoutput: instance-enriched kg model withinferred knowledgemk-i1//knowledge inference ofboundary conditions2foreach building_surface1bot:element do3foreach building_surface2bot:element do4ifbuilding_surface1 building_surface2and building_surface1is attached tobuilding_surface2then5add (building_surface1, bot:adjacentelement, building_surface2) to mk-i6add (building_surface1, bot:hasoutsideboundarycondition, "indoors") to mk-i7else8add (building_surface1, bot:hasoutsideboundarycondition, "outdoors") to mk-i9end for10end for11foreach fenestration_surfacebot:element do12num(cid:277)calculatenumberofattachedwall(fenestration_surface)13ifnum= 1 then14add (fenestration_surface, bot:hasoutsideboundarycondition, "outdoors") to mk-i15else16add (fenestration_surface, bot:hasoutsideboundarycondition, "indoors") to mk-i17end for18//knowledge inference of airflow topology relations19inference_triples(cid:277)topologyreasoning(mk)20add inference_triplesto mk-iidentify building surfacesattached to each other.determine outside boundary conditions of building surfaces.determine outside boundary conditions of fenestration surfaces.obtain airflow topology relationships using algorithm 4.calculate the number of attached wall(s) of each fenestration surface using algorithm 3. z. wu et al. fig. 7. example of airflow topology relations. fig. 8. kg component for compliance checking. table 3 regulatory requirements of the illustrative example. index height limit percentage site coverage plot ratio site boundary calculation max ground floor area / site area total floor area / site area max(x_coordinate)  min((x_coordinate) and max(y_coordinate)  min limit (z_coordinate)  15 m  0.666  3.3 (y_coordinate)  19.6 m  19.6 m the site area is retrieved (lines 3 and 4, algorithm 7), the total floor area is calculated by the sum of the query results of the floor areas of all the spaces (lines 611, algorithm 7), and finally, the actual plot ratio is calculated (line 13, algorithm 7). the reasoning algorithm for actual site boundary (algorithm 8) retrieves the x and y coordinates of the vertices (lines 1012, 1921,2729 and 3638, algorithm 8), and sub- sequently conducts coordinate transformation from the building coor- dinate to the true north coordinate (fig. 9) (lines 1314, 2223, 3031 and 3940, algorithm 8), finally obtaining the ranges of the x and y coordinates (lines 4546, algorithm 8). the second step is to assess the compliance of the constraints by reasoning, and algorithm 9 (listed in appendix b) shows the reasoning algorithm in swrl. because there is no conditional structure in swrl, the assessment of compliance and noncompliance should be written in two parallel strings (lines 18 and lines 916, algorithm 9, respec- tively). the following elaboration takes the compliance assessment for the height limit as an example. the property pgd:actualvalue of the in- dividual building_height is added to the pgd-kg model (fig. 8) after the implementation of algorithm 5. the property pgd:upperlimit of the in- dividual building_height is retrieved (line 5 and line 13, algorithm 9) and compared with the property pgd:actualvalue (line 7 and line 15, algorithm 9). the property pgd:satisfied of the individual height_limit is then inferred by the comparison to indicate height limit compliance (line 8 and line 16, algorithm 9). 3.5. reasoning algorithms for performance evaluation design strategies act as valuable guiding principles for architects designing sustainable buildings. conventionally, architects rely on these strategies to manually inform the design process. in this section, we present a collection of algorithms that automate the performance eval- uation by utilizing cross-domain reasoning of pgd-kg models. fig. 10 elaborates on the workflow of extracting design strategies from the literature and translating them into machine-readable reasoning algo- rithms. firstly, three strategies are derived from three books on sus- tainable building design, sun, wind, and light [10], 101 rules of thumb appliedenergy367(2024)12331813 z. wu et al. indicators can be derived, and the design cases are selected according to the indicator values. to determine the number of selected cases, a hyperparameter called the threshold is introduced to the knowledge- informed optimization framework. design cases whose indicator values satisfy criterion (1) (if a larger value is desired) or criterion (2) (if a smaller value is desired) are selected. subsequently, performance simulations will be conducted to obtain the detailed performance met- rics of the selected cases for the optimization process. i  imax (cid:0) t  (imax (cid:0) imin) i  imin + t  (imax (cid:0) imin) (1) (2) in which, i is the value of the indicator, imax is the maximum value of the indicator among all the design cases, imin is the minimum value of the indicator among all the design cases, and t is the threshold (%) decided by the users at the beginning of the generation. 4. illustrative example 4.1. background of the design project a hypothetical design project was created to illustrate the imple- mentation of the proposed knowledge-informed optimization frame- work. a 2-story detached house using prefabricated modular techniques in a pilot design study was to be constructed in a square site with a boundary of 19.6 m  19.6 m on a campus in hong kong (fig. 11). the design stipulated that the ground floor should contain one living room, one kitchen, one bathroom and one bedroom, while the first floor should contain one living room, one main bedroom, one bathroom, two bed- rooms and one study. fig. 12 illustrates the modeling rule of the prefabricated modular detached house. the main bedroom, bedrooms, bathrooms, study, kitchen, living rooms and staircase were set as prefabricated modular units whose sizes were fixed. the locations of the staircase and living rooms were settled according to the design constants listed in table 5, while the positions and orientations of the other prefabricated modular units varied among five slots (a, b, c, d and e). the prefabricated modular units in slots a, c and d had two directions (along the x-axis and y-axis of the building coordinates), while those in slot b and e were only directed along the y-axis. considering the structural requirements and correspondence of drainage pipes, the main bedroom, bedrooms, bathrooms, study, and kitchen modules were arranged in five fig. 9. coordinate transformation in the reasoning algorithm for site boundary. for low energy architecture [11] and the green studio handbook: envi- ronmental strategies for schematic design [12]. table 4 shows a summary of the design strategies. secondly, each strategy is translated into a machine-readable algorithm (algorithms 1012, listed in appendix b) that supports the cross-domain reasoning of the pgd-kg models. each strategy has an indicator to represent the degree that the strategy can be achieved. the indicators can only be obtained after the form generation and hence they are used to select design cases after generation instead of being taken as constraints in the generation process. algorithm 10 shows the reasoning algorithm in sparql for the shape factor, which is the indicator of strategy 1. the volume of the building is calculated (lines 35, algorithm 10) and the areas of the exterior surfaces of walls, roofs and floors are retrieved from the pgd- kg model and aggregated (lines 628, algorithm 10). the shape fac- tor is calculated by the ratio of the total exterior surface area and total building volume (line 29, algorithm 10). algorithm 11 shows the reasoning algorithm in sparql for the number of nodes in the overall airflow path, the indicator of strategy 2, which is counted by the number of nodes between two exterior windows. finally, algorithm 12 shows the reasoning algorithm in python for the projection area of windows on the south and north side, which is the indicator of strategy 3. the areas of windows on the south and north side are retrieved by the imple- mentation of a sparql query (lines 29, algorithm 12) and the pro- jection area is calculated subsequently (lines 1121, algorithm 12). following the execution of algorithms 1012, values of the three fig. 10. extraction of design strategies from the literature and translation into machine-readable reasoning algorithms. appliedenergy367(2024)12331814 z. wu et al. table 4 design strategies derived from the literature. strategy original content interpretation indicator (goal) the area of exterior envelopes should be as small as possible. shape factor (minimize) performance cooling and heating 1  clustered rooms reduce skin area, thus heat loss and gain. (g. 2 3 brown & m. dekay, 2013, p. 142) [10]  the greater the surface area of a building envelope, the more energy will be needed to overcome heat losses. a sphere has the smallest surface area by volume of any form. in regions where winter heating is needed, a sprawling single-story building might use 25% more energy than a compact two-story cube of the same floor area because it has a greater surface area through which heat is lost. a slightly elongated solar-oriented form provides the best balance between heat loss and beneficial solar gain. (h. heywood, 2019, p. 76) [11]  permeable buildings can combine open plans and sections for cross-ventilation, stack-ventilation, or both. (g. brown & m. dekay, 2013, p. 145) [10]  daylight apertures can be enlarged to increase interior illumination levels. (g. brown & m. dekay, 2013, p. 251) [10]  arrange program elements into a footprint that maximizes wall area (surface area to volume ratio)using, for example, u- shaped buildings, courtyards/atria, long thin building plans. maximize opportunities for daylighting without direct solar radiation by focusing upon the north and south orientations as prime locations for daylight apertures. east and west apertures require careful consideration of shading devices to reduce the potential for direct glare and unwanted solar gains. (a.g. kwok, w. grondzik, 2018, p. 98) [12] the ventilation path should be sufficiently short and the resistance should be sufficiently low. the light-transmitting windows should be mainly directed to the south or north and be sufficiently large. number of nodes in overall airflow path (minimize) projection area of light- transmitting windows on the south and north side (maximize) cooling daylighting and cooling combinations and allocated to the five slots according to the design variables listed in table 5. main corridors were set in the center of the ground floor and the first floor, and auxiliary corridors were set beside the prefabricated modular units if the units were directed along the x- axis. the regulatory requirements of the design case included height limit, percentage of site coverage, plot ratio and site boundary, as listed in table 3. the goal of the design project was to generate the optimal layouts of the module combinations that would minimize the cooling energy consumption and maximize the daylighting performance of the detached house. 4.2. framework implementation and experiment design the proposed knowledge-informed optimization framework was implemented to generate optimal layouts of the module combinations based on the cooling energy consumption and daylighting performance of the detached house. the procedure followed the workflow shown in fig. 2 and was programmed in python. firstly, the parametric design models of the detached house were developed using the python library rhino3dm [49], which offers geometric manipulation functions that can be used to create and modify parametric rhino 3d models in python. secondly, pgd-kg models were generated based on the parametric design model and enriched semantics using algorithms 14. the python library rdflib [50] was adopted to construct the pgd-kg models and conduct reasoning for knowledge inference. thirdly, reasoning for compliance checking of the four regulatory requirements (table 3) was conducted using algorithms 59, and reasoning for performance eval- uation based on the three design strategies (table 4) was conducted using algorithms 1012. the python library rdflib [50] was also adopted to conduct reasoning for the compliance checking and performance evaluation. fourthly, simulations in terms of cooling energy consump- tion and daylighting were conducted using energyplus [51] and radi- ance [52] respectively for the cases that passed the compliance check and performance evaluation. annual cooling load (acl) and useful daylight illuminance (udi) [53] were adopted as the performance metrics of the cooling energy consumption and daylighting performance respectively. finally, optimization was conducted to find the pareto- optimal solutions that minimize the cooling energy consumption and maximize the daylighting performance of the detached house. we chose non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm ii (nsga-ii) as the optimization algorithm in the illustrative example, because nsga-ii is the most used meta-heuristic optimization algorithm in current pgd practice [4].    the simulation and optimization settings are listed in appendix c. the settings of construction and material (table c.1. 1), internal heat gain (table c.1. 2), and schedule (table c.1. 3) were referenced to mid- rise residential buildings in climate zone 2 in the ashrae 90.1 stan- dard [54]. the cooling setpoint was 25.5 c according to the recom- mendation promulgated by the government of the hong kong special administrative region [55]. according to a study on design criteria for the built thermal environment for hot summer and warm winter zones of china [56], the acceptable range of indoor air temperature for naturally ventilated urban buildings is 18.028.5 c. consequently, an airflow network was set in the simulations, and exterior windows would be c opened if the outdoor air temperature were between 18.0 and 28.5 and the outdoor air temperature were lower than the indoor air tem- perature. the grid of the daylighting simulations was set as 0.6 m  0.6 m, and the height of the reference planes was set as 0.76 m from the floors according to the leadership in energy and environmental design (leed) guidelines for building design and construction [57]. illumi- nance within 1002000 lx was regarded as useful illuminance [53]. the parameters of the nsga-ii algorithm for optimization (table c.1. 4) were fine-tuned before the implementation of the proposed framework. experiments were designed and conducted to evaluate the perfor- mance of the proposed framework. firstly, we studied the sizes of the solution spaces selected by the reasoning algorithms for performance evaluation under different thresholds (75%, 50%, 40%, 30% 20% and 10%). to analyze the sizes of the selected solution spaces and determine whether the selected cases encompassed all pareto-optimal solutions, two metrics were employed: the ratio of selected solutions (the number of solutions selected by the reasoning algorithms divided by the total number of cases) and the ratio of selected pareto-optimal solutions (the number of selected pareto-optimal solutions divided by the number of pareto-optimal solutions in the ground truth). secondly, the accuracy and computational time of the knowledge-informed optimization framework (reasoning-based performance evaluation + nsga-ii opti- mization) under different thresholds (75%, 50%, 40%, 30% and 20%) were studied by comparing it with the general optimization framework (optimization using nsga-ii without the reasoning-based performance evaluation). validity (percentage of the number of the pareto- optimal appliedenergy367(2024)12331815 z. wu et al. fig. 11. site of the design project. solutions obtained by the algorithms to the number of globally optimal solutions) and computational time were adopted to analyze the accuracy and speed of the proposed framework under different thresholds. the computational time encompassed the time for pgd-kg generation, reasoning for compliance checking and performance evaluation, simu- lation, and optimization. in addition, all the cases (7680 in total) were simulated with energyplus and radiance to obtain their acl and udi performance metrics and find the ground truth of the pareto-optimal solutions. the software protege [58] was used for the visualization of the pgd-kg models. a desktop computer was used to conduct the ex- periments and the specifications are as follows: intel core cpu i76700 at 3.40 ghz and 8 cores, 32 gb ram, and windows 64 operating system. the versions of software or tools used are as follows: python 3.9.13, energyplus 22.2.0, radiance 5.4a and protege 5.5.0. 4.3. results 4.3.1. pgd-kg models and compliance checking the pgd-kg models of all the design cases could be generated from their parametric design models with enriched semantics. fig. 13 shows the classes, properties, individuals, and metrics of the pgd-kg model of case 6725, which are visualized in protege. the pgd-kg model of this example (case 6725) represented in turtle syntax [39] can be found in appendix d. the results of compliance checking showed that all the cases satisfied the regulatory requirements for the percentage of site coverage, plot ratio and height limit, while 64 cases did not satisfy the requirement for the site boundary. fig. 14 shows one case (case 1068) that did not pass the compliance check for the site boundary, with the reasoning of the compliance check visualized in protege. in total, 7616 cases passed the compliance checking and entered the remaining stages of the knowledge-informed optimization framework. the results of the 7616 cases are elaborated on and discussed in the following sections. 4.3.2. solution space fig. 15 shows the whole solution space, which contained the 7616 cases and the pareto-optimal solutions of the ground truth obtained by the simulations of all the cases. due to the discrete nature of the design variables, the solution space was likewise discrete. there were 8 module combinations (i.e., the pareto-optimal solutions) that minimized the cooling energy consumption and meanwhile maximized the daylighting performance of the detached house. the drawings, design variables, performance metrics and reasoning indicators of the pareto-optimal solutions are shown in fig. 15. table 6 shows the ratio of selected solutions and the ratio of selected pareto-optimal solutions, and fig. 16 shows the cases selected by the reasoning algorithms for performance evaluation under the thresholds of 75%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20% and 10% (markers in orange), by com- parison with all the design cases in the whole solution space (markers in blue). as the threshold became more stringent (i.e., smaller in magni- tude), the ratio of the selected solutions became smaller and the selected solution space contracted, orienting towards lower acl and higher udi values. when the threshold was equal to or above 40%, all the pareto- optimal solutions were included in the selected solution space. when the threshold was 30% or 20%, one pareto-optimal solution (case 5) was not included. case 5 (fig. 15) satisfied strategy 1 and strategy 2, but failed to comply with strategy 3 if the threshold was more stringent than 40%. when the threshold was 10%, no solution was selected, showing that no case could satisfy all the strategies with such a stringent threshold. the above results demonstrate that to obtain a smaller solu- tion space, a more stringent threshold should be adopted. meanwhile, more stringent thresholds will lead to some missing pareto-optimal so- lutions, and extremely stringent thresholds will lead to no solution being selected. to summarize, the strategy-driven reasoning algorithms for perfor- mance evaluation could narrow the solution space of the optimization while including an adequate number of pareto-optimal solutions ( 87.5%) by adopting proper thresholds. 4.3.3. accuracy and speed table 7 shows the accuracy and speed of the knowledge-informed optimization framework (reasoning-based performance evaluation + nsga-ii optimization) under the thresholds of 75%, 50%, 40%, 30% and 20% compared with the general optimization framework (optimization using nsga-ii without the reasoning-based performance evaluation). the threshold of 10% was not included in the analysis since no solution was earlier selected under this threshold. the results of the validity under different thresholds were the same as those of the ratio of selected pareto-optimal solutions, showing that nsga-ii was able to find all the pareto-optimal solutions in the selected solution space. compared with the general optimization framework, the knowledge-informed optimi- zation framework reduced the computational time substantially. the general optimization framework took 135,512 s (approximately 37.6 h) to finish the optimization process, while the proposed framework could reduce the computational time by 73.25% (to approximately 10.1 h) with the threshold of 20%. as the threshold was more stringent (i.e., smaller in magnitude), less computational time was consumed. as illustrated in section 4.3.2, more stringent thresholds mean smaller solution spaces and hence less simulation and optimization time in the overall framework. however, there was a minor difference in the reduction of computational time when the threshold was below 30%, indicating that when the solution space reached a size equivalent to a certain value, further reduction in the solution space would not enhance the efficiency of nsga-ii. the plausible reason for no improvement of appliedenergy367(2024)12331816 z. wu et al. fig. 12. the modeling rule of the prefabricated modular detached house. nsga-ii performance was that when the solution space becomes smaller, the optimization process got closer to the stage of local search. as mentioned in [59], nsga-ii often generates similar individuals, and hence leads to a decrease in local search capability. the repeated indi- vidual generation was also observed in our experiment. consequently, although more stringent threshold can narrow the solution space significantly, less improvement will be achieved due to the defect of nsga-ii in local search capability. overall, the proposed knowledge-informed optimization framework could obtain an adequate number of pareto-optimal solutions ( 87.5%) while reducing computational time by approximately 73%, compared with the general optimization framework. 4.4. discussion 4.4.1. analysis of the proposed framework the results of the illustrative example in section 4.3 indicate that the proposed knowledge-informed optimization framework is able to obtain an adequate number of pareto-optimal solutions ( 87.5%) while reducing computational time (by approximately 73%), compared with appliedenergy367(2024)12331817 z. wu et al. table 5 design parameters of the prefabricated modular detached house. parameter constant decision variable description value wc h lx ly sx sy sa sb sc sd se da dc dd o corridor width floor height living room width living room depth stairwell width stairwell depth combination in slot a combination in slot b combination in slot c combination in slot d combination in slot e direction of the combination in slot a direction of the combination in slot c direction of the combination in slot d orientation 1.2 m 3.3 m 3.0 m 4.8 m 1.8 m 3.6 m range: [0, 4], step: 1  0: single bedroom (1f);  1: main bedroom (1f) + kitchen (gf);  2: bathroom (1f) + bathroom (gf);  3: single study (1f);  4: bedroom (1f) + bedroom (gf). range: [0,1], step: 1  0: along y-axis;  1: along x-axis.  range: [0,360 ], step: 45  the current optimization framework. the proposed framework can save time because the reasoning algorithms can effectively narrow down the solution space of the optimization while ensuring the inclusion of an adequate number of pareto-optimal solutions by adopting proper thresholds. the narrower solution space leads to fewer cases to be simulated and analyzed, and hence the time taken by simulations and the optimization is reduced. the process of narrowing the solution space aligns with the desired direction to minimize acl and maximize udi (as observed in the illustrative example, involving a shift towards a lower acl and higher udi). the reasoning algorithms for performance eval- uation are derived from expert knowledge that guides sustainable building design, thereby offering a clear explanation for the narrowing process. the rationale of the knowledge-guided space narrowing is similar to machairas et al.'s idea (2014) [8] that the best tools and al- gorithms for the building design problem are the ones that enable re- searchers to use their expert knowledge in order to minimize the size of the solution space or drive the search to the right direction (p. 105). we have realized their idea in this study by integrating expert knowledge into the pgd optimization framework by developing a kg-based model for pgd and implementing kg-based reasoning for case selection based on compliance checking and performance evaluation. threshold is the only hyperparameter that should be decided by the user in the proposed knowledge-informed optimization framework. more stringent thresholds lead to narrower solution spaces, fewer simulation cases and less computational time, but may result in missing some pareto-optimal solutions. the plausible rationale for the missing pareto-optimal solutions lies in the strategies that support the reasoning algorithm. as shown in fig. 16, although the solution space was nar- rowed towards a lower acl and higher udi, not all the cases with a lower acl and higher udi were included. the excluded cases did not satisfy all the strategies but had better energy and daylighting perfor- mance. the literature-derived strategies belong to rules of thumb, heavily rely on human experience, and may contain bias and errors. as the threshold becomes more stringent, the bias and errors may be magnified. according to jin's review [60], in general, fitness evaluations characterized by high fidelity tend to be more time-intensive while fitness evaluations with low fidelity are typically less time-consuming, and hence users should strike a balance between accuracy and fig. 13. classes, properties, individuals, and metrics of the pgd-kg model of case 6725, visualized in protege. appliedenergy367(2024)12331818 z. wu et al. fig. 14. one case that did not satisfy the requirement for site boundary. computational time. in contrast to simulation, the strategy-driven reasoning method for performance evaluation belongs to a group of methods with less fidelity but less time consumption. the threshold is the parameter that determines the balance of accuracy and computa- tional time in the proposed knowledge-informed optimization frame- work. more stringent thresholds could be adopted to accelerate the pgd process if neglecting some pareto-optimal solutions is acceptable. in addition, the threshold should not be so stringent (e.g., 10% in the illustrative example) that no case can satisfy all the strategies and be selected by the reasoning algorithm. the illustrative example provides a preliminary suggestion on how to choose the threshold. a threshold of 40% is the one that obtains all pareto-optimal solutions with the least computational time, while 30% is the threshold that can achieve approximately the highest speed while still obtaining an adequate number of pareto-optimal solutions. to figure out which is the appro- priate range of thresholds, further studies with more design cases are needed. 4.4.2. limitations and future work some limitations identified in this study warrant further consider- ation in future studies. (1) as mentioned in section 4.4.1, the accuracy of the proposed framework relies on the appropriate adoption of strategies. future studies should address the evaluation of the suitability of the adopted strategies, especially for building design in different climates. furthermore, the extraction of design strategies from the literature to be translated into machine-readable reasoning algorithms was performed manually. future research should explore methods for automated extraction of design strategies (as well as regulatory requirements for compliance checking) using natural language processing (nlp) techniques. (2) as mentioned in section 4.4.1, the threshold is the important hyperparameter of the proposed framework. this study provides a preliminary suggestion on the selection of the proper threshold based on the illustrative example, but the universal principles for threshold selection were not investigated in depth, which re- mains an issue to be solved in the future. (3) in the illustrative example, only one optimization algorithm was implemented, namely, nsga-ii. studies have shown that other optimization algorithms (e.g., radial basis function multi- objective optimization (rbfmopt) [28]) can outperform nsga- ii. thus, further research is warranted to investigate the inte- gration of additional meta-heuristic optimization algorithms into the proposed framework. 5. conclusions in this study, we introduce a knowledge-informed optimization framework for performance-based generative design (pgd) of sustain- able buildings, with the objective of addressing the challenge of long computational time by integrating human domain knowledge of sus- tainable design strategies into pgd. firstly, we proposed a pgdkg schema that effectively captures and represents the topological relations and functionalities within pgd. the pgd-kg schema encompasses five key domains, namely, building, weather, internal heat gain, hvac system, and regulation and strategy. secondly, we presented a genera- tion method that automatically produces instance-enriched pgd-kg models from parametric design models with semantic information. thirdly, we developed cross-domain reasoning algorithms that enable knowledge inference in the pgd-kg models, facilitating automated compliance checking based on regulatory requirements and perfor- mance evaluation using sustainable building design strategies. lastly, we implemented the proposed framework in a design project involving a prefabricated modular detached house to optimize the module layout for minimal cooling energy consumption and maximal daylighting perfor- mance. through experiments, we evaluated the accuracy and compu- tational time performance of the proposed framework. we summarize the major conclusions of this study as follows.  the proposed knowledge-informed optimization framework is able to find a substantial number of pareto-optimal solutions ( 87.5% in appliedenergy367(2024)12331819 z. wu et al. fig. 15. solution space and pareto-optimal solutions of the ground truth. the illustrative example) while significantly reducing computational time (by approximately 73% in the illustrative example), compared with the general pgd optimization framework.  the reduction in computational time in the proposed framework is attributed to the utilization of strategy-driven reasoning algorithms for performance evaluation. these algorithms effectively narrow down the solution space during optimization while ensuring the in- clusion of an adequate number of pareto-optimal solutions ( 87.5% in the illustrative example) by adopting appropriate thresholds.  the threshold, which is a hyperparameter determining the scale of cases selected by strategy-driven reasoning algorithms, plays a crucial role in balancing the accuracy and computational time of the table 6 ratio of selected solutions and ratio of selected pareto-optimal solutions under different thresholds. threshold (%) ratio of selected solutions (%) ratio of selected pareto-optimal solutions (selected / ground truth) 75 50 40 30 20 10 89.65 47.40 31.04 16.33 11.50 0 8/8 8/8 8/8 7/8 7/8 0/8 proposed framework. the illustrative example demonstrated that a threshold of 40% is appropriate for obtaining all pareto-optimal so- lutions with reduced computational time, while a threshold of 30% is suitable for achieving nearly minimal computational time while still obtaining a satisfactory number of pareto- optimal solutions. the major contribution of this study is the successful integration of human domain knowledge, specifically sustainable design strategies, into the optimization process of pgd. to the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first study to incorporate knowledge integration into pgd. this is done by developing a knowledge graph (kg) model for pgd and implementing kg-based reasoning for case selection through compliance checking and performance evaluation. however, several limitations have been identified. future studies should focus on addressing these limitations, such as by automating the extraction of design strategies from the literature and translating them into machine- readable reasoning algorithms, exploring universal principles for threshold selection, and integrating additional meta-heuristic optimi- zation algorithms into the proposed framework. in addition, although sustainable performance is focused on in this study, future work could focus on expanding the proposed framework to include other aspects such as aesthetics or structural performance in pgd. appliedenergy367(2024)12331820 z. wu et al. fig. 16. selected solution spaces under different thresholds. appliedenergy367(2024)12331821 z. wu et al. table 7 accuracy and speed of the knowledge-informed optimization framework under different thresholds. threshold (%) validity (selected/ ground truth) computational time (s) computational time reduction (%)* the general optimization framework  8/8 the knowledge-informed optimization framework 75 50 40 30 20 8/8 8/8 8/8 7/8 7/8 * compared with the time of the general optimization framework. 135,512 117,126 62,837 51,674 36,252 36,243  13.57 56.63 61.87 73.25 73.25 credit authorship contribution statement zhaoji wu: writing  original draft, visualization, validation, soft- ware, methodology, investigation, formal analysis, data curation, conceptualization. zhe wang: writing  review & editing, supervision, project administration, methodology, funding acquisition. jack c.p. cheng: writing  review & editing, supervision, project administration, methodology. helen h.l. kwok: writing  review & editing, supervi- sion, methodology. declaration of competing interest the authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. data availability data will be made available on request. acknowledgments this research is supported by the national science fund for excellent young scholars (grant number 52322813). this work is supported in part by the project of hetao shenzhen-hong kong science and tech- nology innovation cooperation zone (hzqb-kczyb-2020083). appendix a. components of weather, internal heat gain and hvac system in the pgd-kg schema fig. a.1. weather in the pgd-kg schema. appliedenergy367(2024)12331822pgd:weatherbrick:locationpgd:tmyweatherpgd:historicalweatherpgd:forecastweatherrdfs:subclassofbrick:haslocationhcity_tmy.epw(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreatrdfs:subclassofrdfs:subclassofhcity_tmyrdf:typehcampus_hisdb(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreathcampus_historical_weatherrdf:typehcampus_fordb(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreathcampus_forecast_weatherrdf:typeclassinstancelegend:propertyalgorithm: ...hyperparameter: ... (xsd:string)pgd:hasforecastmethodpgd:climatezonepgd:hasclimatezonekppen_cwardf:type z. wu et al. fig. a.2. electrical equipment in the pgd-kg schema. fig. a.3. lighting equipment in the pgd-kg schema. appliedenergy367(2024)12331823brick:electrical_equipmentashrae901midriseapart_electricequipmentrdf:typebot:spacebrick:haslocationpgd:powerpgd:haspowerpgd:schedulepgd:hasschedulebedroom1_f1rdf:typeashrae901midriseapart_electricequipmentpower_w_m2rdf:typeashrae901midriseapart_equipmentschedulerdf:type6.0(xsd:double)brick:valueashrae901midriseapart_equipemntschedule(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreatclassinstancelegend:propertyashrae901(xsd:string)pgd:hassourcepgd:hassourcebrick:lighting_equipmentashrae901midriseapart_lightingrdf:typebot:spacebrick:haslocationpgd:powerpgd:haspowerpgd:schedulepgd:hasschedulebedroom1_f1rdf:typeashrae901midriseapart_lighting_wm2rdf:typeashrae901midriseapart_lightingschedulerdf:type11.1(xsd:double)brick:valueashrae901midriseapart_lightingschedule(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreatclassinstancelegend:propertyashrae901(xsd:string)pgd:hassourcepgd:hassource z. wu et al. fig. a.4. occupancy in the pgd-kg schema. fig. a.5. hvac system in the pgd-kg schema. appliedenergy367(2024)12331824brick:occupancyashrae901midriseapart_occupancybot:spacepgd:spacetypepgd:activitylevelpgd:schedulebrick:haslocationpgd:hasspacetypepgd:hasactivitylevelbedroom1_f1rdf:typesleeping_w_personrdf:typebedroomrdf:typepgd:hasschedulerdf:typeashrae901midriseapart_occupancyschedulerdf:typepgd:filestoreatashrae901midriseapart_occupancyschedule(xsd:string)72.0(xsd:double)brick:valueclassinstancelegend:propertypgd:idealloadsairsystembot:spacebrick:feedshk_ilasrdf:typebedroom1_f1rdf:typebrick:cooling_temperature_setpointbrick:heating_temperature_setpointbrick:haspointbrick:haspointpgd:schedulepgd:hasschedulehk_residential_cooling_schedulerdf:typehk_residential_cooling_schedule(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreatpgd:schedulepgd:hasschedulehk_residential_heating_schedule(xsd:string)pgd:filestoreatclassinstancelegend:propertyhk_residential_csprdf:typepgd:hasschedulehk_residential_heating_schedulerdf:typehk_residential_hsprdf:typepgd:hasschedule z. wu et al. appendix b. reasoning algorithms algorithm 3. (in spaqrl): reasoning for the number of walls that a fenestration surface is attached to. algorithm 4. (in swrl): reasoning for airflow topology relations. appliedenergy367(2024)123318251 select ?fenestration (count(?wall) as ?count) 2 where {?wall rdf:type bot:element . 3 ?fenestration rdf:type bot:element . 4 ?wall bot:hassubelement ?fenestration . 5 } 6 group by ?fenestration 1 //airflow between a space and a fenestration surface 2 bot:space(?space) 3 ^bot:haselement(?space,?buildingsurface) 4 ^bot:hassubelement(?buildingsurface,?fenenstration) 5 ->pgd:hasairflow(?space,?fenenstration) 6 //airflow between a space and an air wall 7 bot:space(?space) 8 ^bot:haselement(?space,?airwall) 9 ^pgd:hassurfacetype(?arwall,"irwall") 10 ->pgd:hasairflow(?space,?airwall) 11 //airflow between an air wall and its adjacent air wall 12 bot:element(?airwall1) 13 ^bot:element(?airwall2) 14 ^pgd:hassurfacetype(?aiwall1,"irwall") 15 ^pgd:hassurfacetype(?aiwall2,"irwall") 16 ^bot:adjacentelement(?airwall1,?airwall2) 17 ->pgd:hasairflow(?airwall1,?airwall2) z. wu et al. algorithm 5. (in sparql): reasoning for actual height of a building. appliedenergy367(2024)12331826 1 select (max(?maxvalue) as ?overallmaxvalue) 2 where { 3 { 4 select (max(?value1) as ?maxvalue) 5 where { 6 ?surface rdf:type bot:element . 7 ?surface pgd:hasvertex1z_m ?value1 . 8 } 9 } union 10 { 11 select (max(?value2) as ?maxvalue) 12 where { 13 ?surface rdf:type bot:element . 14 ?surface pgd:hasvertex2z_m ?value2 . 15 } 16 } union 17 { 18 select (max(?value3) as ?maxvalue) 19 where { 20 ?surface rdf:type bot:element . 21 ?surface pgd:hasvertex3z_m ?value3 . 22 } 23 } union 24 { obtain the maximums of the z coordinates of the first vertex. obtain the maximums of the z coordinates of the second vertex. obtain the maximums of the z coordinates of the third vertex. 25select (max(?value4) as ?maxvalue)26where {27?surfacerdf:type bot:element.28?surfacepgd:hasvertex4z_m?value4.29}30}31}obtain the maximums of the z coordinates of the fourth vertex. z. wu et al. algorithm 6. (in sparql): reasoning for actual percentage of site coverage. algorithm 7. (in sparql): reasoning for actual plot ratio. appliedenergy367(2024)123318271select ?sitecoverage2where {3?siterdf:type bot:site.4?sitepgd:has area_m2?sitearea.5{6select (sum(?gffloorarea) as ?sumgffloorarea)7where {8{gf} bot:hasspace?space.9?spacebot:haselement?floor.10?floorpgd:hassurfacetypefloor .11?floorpgd:hasfloorarea_m2?gffloorarea.12}13}14bind((?sumgffloorarea/?sitearea) as ?sitecoverage)15}*{gf}: the uniform resource identifier (uri) of the ground floor.retrieve the site area.calculate the floor areas of the ground floor.calculate the site coverage.1select ?plotratio2where {3?siterdf:typebot:site.4?sitepgd:has area_m2?sitearea.5{6select (sum(?floorarea) as ?sumfloorarea)7where {8?floorrdf:type bot:element.9?floorpgd:hassurfacetypefloor .10?floorpgd:hasfloorarea_m2?floorarea.11}12}13bind((?sumfloorarea/?sitearea) as ?plotratio) .14}retrieve the site area.calculate the total floor area.calculate the plot ratio. z. wu et al. algorithm 8. (in sparql): reasoning for actual site boundary. appliedenergy367(2024)12331828 1 select ?transvaluexrange ?transvalueyrange 2 where { 3 {select (max(?transvaluex) as ?overallmaxtransvaluex) 4 (max(?transvaluey) as ?overallmaxtransvaluey) 5 (min(?transvaluex) as ?overallmintransvaluex) 6 (min(?transvaluey) as ?overallmintransvaluey) 7 where { 8 {select ?transvaluex ?transvaluey 9 where { 10 ?surface rdf:type bot:element . 11 ?surface pgd:hasvertex1x_m ?value1x . 12 ?surface pgd:hasvertex1y_m ?value1y . 13 bind(?value1x*{cosa}+?value1y*{sina} as ?transvaluex) . 14 bind(-?value1x*{sina}+?value1y*{cosa} as ?transvaluey) . 15 } 16 } union 17 {select ?transvaluex ?transvaluey 18 where { 19 ?surface rdf:type bot:element . 20 ?surface pgd:hasvertex2x_m ?value2x . 21 ?surface pgd:hasvertex2y_m ?value2y . 22 bind(?value2x*{cosa}+?value2y*{sina} as ?transvaluex) . 23 bind(-?value2x*{sina}+?value2y*{cosa} as ?transvaluey) . 24 } union retrieve the x and y coordinates of the first vertex and conduct coordinate transformation from the building coordinate to the true north coordinate. calculate the maximal x, minimal x, maximal y and minimal y coordinates of the vertices (the final step). retrieve the x and y coordinates of the second vertex and conduct coordinate transformation from the building coordinate to the true north coordinate. 25{select ?transvaluex?transvaluey26where {27?surfacerdf:type bot:element.28?surfacepgd:hasvertex3x_m?value3x.29?surfacepgd:hasvertex3y_m?value3y. 30bind(?value3x*{cosa}+?value3y*{sina} as ?transvaluex) .31bind(-?value3x*{sina}+?value3y*{cosa} as ?transvaluey) .32} 33} union34{select ?transvaluex?transvaluey35where {36?surfacerdf:type bot:element.37?surfacepgd:hasvertex4x_m?value4x.38?surfacepgd:hasvertex4y_m?value4y. 39bind(?value4x*{cosa}+?value4y*{sina} as ?transvaluex) .40bind(-?value4x*{sina}+?value4y*{cosa} as ?transvaluey) .41} 42}43}44}45bind(?overallmaxtransvaluex-?overallmintransvaluexas ?transvaluexrange) .46bind(?overallmaxtransvaluey-?overallmintransvalueyas ?transvalueyrange) .47}*{sina}: the sine of the orientation, {cosa}: the cosine of the orientation.retrieve the x and y coordinates of the third vertex and conduct coordinate transformation from the building coordinate to the true north coordinate.retrieve the x and y coordinates of the fourth vertex and conduct coordinate transformation from the building coordinate to the true north coordinate.obtain the range of the x and y coordinates. z. wu et al. algorithm 9. (in swrl): reasoning for compliance assessment. algorithm 10. (in sparql): reasoning for the shape factor. appliedenergy367(2024)123318291//if the actual value is within the limit, the compliance of the constraint is true.2pgd:constraint(?constraint)3^ pgd:index(?index)4^pgd:hasindex(?constraint, ?index)5^ pgd:upperlimit(?index, ?limitvalue)6^ pgd:actualvalue(?index, ?actualvalue)7^ swrlb:lessthanorequal(?actualvalue, ?limitvalue)8-> pgd:satisfied(?constraint, true)9//if the actual value is beyond the limit, the compliance of the constraint is false.10pgd:constraint(?constraint)11^ pgd:index(?index)12^ pgd:hasindex(?constraint, ?index)13^ pgd:upperlimit(?index, ?limitvalue)14^pgd:actualvalue(?index, ?actualvalue)15^ swrlb:greaterthan(?actualvalue, ?limitvalue)16-> pgd:satisfied(?constraint, false) 1 select ?shapefactor 2 where { 3 {select (sum(?outdoorarea) as ?totaloutdoorarea) (sum(?volume) as ?totalvolume) 4 where {?space rdf:type bot:space . 5 ?space pgd:hasvolume_m3 ?volume . 6 {select (sum(?area) as ?outdoorarea) 7 where {?surface rdf:type bot:element . 8 ?surface pgd:hassurfacetype wall . 9 ?surface pgd:hasoutsideboundarycondition outdoors . 10 ?surface pgd:has area_m2 ?area . 11 } 12 } union 13 {select (sum(?area) as ?outdoorarea) 14 where {?surface rdf:type bot:element . 15 ?surface pgd:hassurfacetype roof . 16 ?surface pgd:hasoutsideboundarycondition outdoors . 17 ?surface pgd:has area_m2 ?area . 18 } 19 } union 20 {select (sum(?area) as ?outdoorarea) 21 where {?surface rdf:type bot:element . 22 ?surface pgd:hassurfacetype floor . 23 ?surface pgd:hasoutsideboundarycondition outdoors . 24 ?surface pgd:has area_m2 ?area . calculate the total area and the building volume. calculate the area of the outdoor walls. calculate the area of the outdoor roofs. calculate the area of the outdoor floors. 25} 26}27}28}29bind((?totaloutdoorarea/?totalvolume) as ?shapefactor)30}calculate the shape factor. z. wu et al. algorithm 11. (in sparql): reasoning for the number of nodes in overall airflow path. algorithm 12. (in python): reasoning for projection area of windows on the south and north side. appendix c. simulation and optimization settings of the illustrative example table c.1 construction and material settings. construction material wall layer 1: 1in stucco layer 2: 8in concrete parameter roughness: smooth, thickness (m): 0.0253, conductivity (w/mk): 0.691, density (kg/m3): 1858, specific heat (j/kgk): 836, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.92. roughness: rough, thickness (m): 0.2032, conductivity (w/mk): 1.310, density (kg/m3): 2240, specific heat (j/kgk): 836, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. (continued on next page) appliedenergy367(2024)123318301select (count(distinct ?intermediatenode) as ?nodecount)2where {3?window1rdf:type bot:element .4?window1pgd:hassurfacetypewindow .5?window1pgd:hasoutsideboundaryconditionoutdoors .6?window2rdf:type bot:element.7?window2pgd:hassurfacetypewindow .8?window2pgd:hasoutsideboundaryconditionoutdoors .9?window1pgd:hasairflow* ?intermediatenode.10?intermediatenodepgd:hasairflow* ?window2.11}retrieve the first outdoor window.retrieve the second outdoor window.calculate the number of nodesbetween the two windows.1query_south_north_window_projection_area = 2select ?area ?nvx ?nvy3where {?window rdf:type bot:element .4?window pgd:hassurfacetype window .5?window pgd:hasoutsideboundarycondition outdoors .6?window pgd:has area_m2 ?area .7?window pgd:hasnormalvectorx_m ?nvx .8?window pgd:hasnormalvectory_m ?nvy .9}1011qres_south_north_window_projection_area = g.query(query_south_north_window_projection_area)12south_north_window_projection_area = 013east_west_window_projection_area = 014for row in qres_south_north_window_projection_area:15window_area = float(row[0])16normal_vector_x = float(row[1])17normal_vector_y = float(row[2])18south_north_projected_area = window_area * pow(1 pow(normal_vector_x * cosa + normal_vector_y * sina, 2), 0.5)19south_north_window_projection_area += south_north_projected_area20east_west_projected_area = window_area * pow(1 pow(normal_vector_y * cosa normal_vector_x * sina, 2), 0.5)21east_west_window_projection_area += east_west_projected_arearetrieve the areas of windows on the south and north side.calculate the projected area. z. wu et al. table c.1 (continued ) construction material layer 3: typical insulation-r5 layer 4: 1/2in gypsum roof layer 1: roof membrane - highly reflective layer 2: typical insulation-r26 layer 3: metal roof surface floor layer 1: typical insulation r8 layer 2: normal weight concrete floor layer 3: typical carpet pad door layer 1: f08 metal surface layer 2: typical insulation-r3 window layer 1: u 0.45 shgc 0.25 simple glazing parameter roughness: mediumsmooth, r-value (m2k/w): 0.88, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: smooth, thickness (m): 0.0127, conductivity (w/mk): 0.160, density (kg/m3): 785, specific heat (j/kgk): 829, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.4, visible absorptance: 0.4. roughness: veryrough, thickness (m): 0.0095, conductivity (w/mk): 0.160, density (kg/m3): 1121, specific heat (j/kgk): 1459, thermal absorptance: 0.75, solar absorptance: 0.45, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: mediumsmooth, r-value (m2k/w): 4.58, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: smooth, thickness (m): 0.0008, conductivity (w/mk): 45.2, density (kg/m3): 7824, specific heat (j/kgk): 500, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: mediumsmooth, r-value (m2k/w): 1.41, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: mediumrough, thickness (m): 0.1016, conductivity (w/mk): 2.31, density (kg/m3): 2322, specific heat (j/kgk): 831, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: veryrough, r-value (m2k/w): 0.216, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.8. roughness: smooth, thickness (m): 0.0008, conductivity (w/mk): 45.2, density (kg/m3): 7824, specific heat (j/kgk): 500, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. roughness: mediumsmooth, r-value (m2k/w): 0.528, thermal absorptance: 0.9, solar absorptance: 0.7, visible absorptance: 0.7. u-factor (w/m2-k): 2.5551, shgc: 0.25, vt: 0.6. appliedenergy367(2024)12331831 z. wu et al. ) 2 m / e l p o e p ( a e r a r e p e l p o e p 5 2 0 0 .   ) w ( r e w o p   5 9 ) 2 m / w ( y t i s n e d r e w o p . 1 1 1 6  . s g n i t t e s n i a g t a e h l a n r e t n i 2 . c e l b a t n i a g t a e h l a n r e t n i t n e m p i u q e t n a p u c c o g n i t h g i l 8 5 0 . 6 1 0 . 1 4 2 4 8 3 0 . 1 7 0 . 1 2 9 6 0 . 5 8 0 . 9 8 0 . 1 1 7 8 0 . 6 8 9 0 . 7 8 0 . 3 9 0 . 3 2 2 2 1 2 0 2 9 2 8 0 . 7 8 0 . 6 1 6 0 . 2 5 0 . 9 3 4 0 . 3 0 . 9 1 1 8 1 1 7 1 8 0 . 6 0 2 0 . 5 2 0 . 8 6 0 . 9 1 1 0 . 5 2 0 . 5 6 0 . 9 1 1 0 . 5 2 0 . 6 6 0 . 9 1 1 0 . 5 2 0 . 9 6 0 . 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 1 7 0 . 9 1 1 0 . 5 2 0 . 9 1 1 0 . 5 2 0 . 9 6 0 . 9 1 1 0 . 5 2 0 . 7 6 0 . 2 7 1 0 . 9 3 0 . 6 6 0 . 3 9 3 0 . 5 8 0 . 5 6 0 . 4 5 0 . 4 4 0 . 1 4 9 3 0 . 3 4 0 . 1 7 8 1 0 . 8 3 0 . 1 7 6 0 0 . 8 3 0 . 1 7 6 0 0 . 9 3 0 . 1 7 6 0 0 . 1 4 0 . 1 7 6 0 0 . 5 4 0 . t n e m p i u q e t h g i l 1 t n a p u c c o 1 1 0 1 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 r u o h . s g n i t t e s e l u d e h c s 3 . c e l b a t appliedenergy367(2024)12331832 z. wu et al. table c.4 parameter settings of nsga-ii algorithm in the illustrative example. population size mutation probability crossover probability mutation distribution index crossover distribution index 100 0.1 0.9 20 20 appendix d. pgd-kg model files the pgd-kg models mentioned in the main text can be found by this link: https://github.com/georgezwu/pgd_kg_schema. references [1] united nations environment programme. global status report for buildings and construction, 2022. https://www.unep.org/resources/publication/2022-global-s tatus-report-buildings-and-construction; 2022. accessed october 31, 2023. [2] davis d. the macleamy curve. https://www.danieldavis.com/macleamy/; 2011. accessed october 31, 2023. [3] zhang l, feng g, li a, huang k, chang s. comprehensive evaluation and analysis of a nearly zero-energy building heating system using a multi-source heat pump in severe cold region. in: building simulation. springer; 2023. p. 122. [4] ekici b, cubukcuoglu c, turrin m, sariyildiz is. performative computational architecture using swarm and evolutionary optimisation: a review. build environ 2019;147:35671. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2018.10.023. [5] pacheco r, ordonez j, martnez g. energy efficient design of building: a review. renew sust energ rev 2012;16:355973. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. rser.2012.03.045. [6] an j, wu y, gui c, yan d. chinese prototype building models for simulating the energy performance of the nationwide building stock. build simul 2023;16: 155982. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12273-023-1058-5. [7] wang w, rivard h, zmeureanu r. an object-oriented framework for simulation- based green building design optimization with genetic algorithms. adv eng inform 2005;19:523. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2005.03.002. [8] machairas v, tsangrassoulis a, axarli k. algorithms for optimization of building design: a review. renew sust energ rev 2014;31:10112. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.rser.2013.11.036. [9] su z, yan w. a fast genetic algorithm for solving architectural design optimization problems. aiedam 2015;29:45769. https://doi.org/10.1017/ s089006041500044x. [10] brown g, dekay m. sun, wind, and light. 2nd ed. new york, usa: wiley; 2013. [11] heywood h. 101 rules of thumb for low energy architecture. london, uk: riba publishing; 2019. [12] kwok ag, grondzik w. the green studio handbook: environmental strategies for schematic design. oxfordshire, uk: routledge; 2018. [13] ji s, pan s, cambria e, marttinen p, yu ps. a survey on knowledge graphs: representation, acquisition, and applications. ieee trans neural netw learn syst 2022;33:494514. https://doi.org/10.1109/tnnls.2021.3070843. [14] pauwels p, zhang s, lee y-c. semantic web technologies in aec industry: a literature overview. autom constr 2017;73:14565. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. autcon.2016.10.003. [15] herr cm, kvan t. adapting cellular automata to support the architectural design process. autom constr 2007;16:619. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. autcon.2005.10.005. [16] lakhdari k, sriti l, painter b. parametric optimization of daylight, thermal and energy performance of middle school classrooms, case of hot and dry regions. build environ 2021;204:108173. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2021.108173. [17] mohammad s, saryazdi e, etemad a, shafaat a, bahman am. data-driven performance analysis of a residential building applying artificial neural network (ann) and multi-objective genetic algorithm (ga). build environ 2022;225: 109633. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2022.109633. [18] attia s, hamdy m, obrien w, carlucci s. assessing gaps and needs for integrating building performance optimization tools in net zero energy buildings design. energ buildings 2013;60:11024. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2013.01.016. [19] ramallo-gonzalez ap, coley da. using self-adaptive optimisation methods to perform sequential optimisation for low-energy building design. energ buildings 2014;81:1829. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2014.05.037. [20] choudhary r, malkawi a, papalambros py. a hierarchical design optimization framework for building performance analysis. in: proceedings of the 8-th ibpsa conference, eindhoven, netherlands; 2003. [21] westermann p, evins r. surrogate modelling for sustainable building design  a review. energ buildings 2019;198:17086. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. enbuild.2019.05.057. [22] magnier l, haghighat f. multiobjective optimization of building design using trnsys simulations, genetic algorithm, and artificial neural network. build environ 2010;45:73946. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2009.08.016. [23] wang w, zmeureanu r, rivard h. applying multi-objective genetic algorithms in green building design optimization. build environ 2005;40:151225. [24] asl mr, zarrinmehr s, bergin m, yan w. bpopt: a framework for bim-based performance optimization. energ buildings 2015;108:40112. [25] ekici b, chatzikonstantinou i, sariyildiz s, tasgetiren mf, pan q-k. a multi- objective self-adaptive differential evolution algorithm for conceptual high-rise building design. in: 2016 ieee congress on evolutionary computation (cec). vancouver, bc: ieee; 2016. p. 22729. https://doi.org/10.1109/ cec.2016.7744069. [26] zhang r, waibel c, wortmann t. aerodynamic shape optimization for high-rise conceptual design. in: proceedings of the ecaade; 2020. [27] zhu l, wang b, sun y. multi-objective optimization for energy consumption, daylighting and thermal comfort performance of rural tourism buildings in north china. build environ 2020;176:106841. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. buildenv.2020.106841. [28] zhang r, xu x, zhai p, liu k, kong l, wang w. agile and integrated workflow proposal for optimising energy use, solar and wind energy potential, and structural stability of high-rise buildings in early design decisions. energ buildings 2023;300: 113692. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113692. [29] ji y, wang w, he y, li l, zhang h, zhang t. performance in generation: an automatic generalizable generative-design-based performance optimization framework for sustainable building design. energ buildings 2023;298:113512. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113512. [30] beninca l, crespo sanchez e, passuello a, karini leitzke r, grala da cunha e, barroso j maria gonzalez. multi-objective optimization of the solar orientation of two residential multifamily buildings in south brazil. energ buildings 2023;285: 112838. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.112838. [31] lygerakis f, kampelis n, kolokotsa d. knowledge graphs ontologies and applications for energy efficiency in buildings: a review. energies 2022;15:7520. https://doi.org/10.3390/en15207520. [32] pauwels p, terkaj w. express to owl for construction industry: towards a recommendable and usable ifcowl ontology. autom constr 2016;63:10033. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2015.12.003. [33] rasmussen mh, lefranois m, schneider gf, pauwels p. bot: the building topology ontology of the w3c linked building data group. semantic web 2020;12: 14361. https://doi.org/10.3233/sw-200385. [34] balaji b, bhattacharya a, fierro g, gao j, gluck j, hong d, et al. brick : metadata schema for portable smart building applications. appl energy 2018;226:127392. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2018.02.091. [35] pauwels p, corry e, odonnell j. representing simmodel in the web ontology language. in: computing in civil and building engineering. 2014. orlando, florida, united states: american society of civil engineers; 2014. p. 22718. https://doi. org/10.1061/9780784413616.282. [36] wu z, cheng jcp, wang z, kwok hhl. an ontology-based framework for automatic building energy modeling with thermal zoning. energ buildings 2023; 296:113267. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2023.113267. [37] goldberg de. genetic algorithms in search, optimization and machine learning. 1st ed. usa: addison-wesley longman publishing co., inc; 1989. [38] eberhart r, kennedy j. a new optimizer using particle swarm theory. in: mhs95. proceedings of the sixth international symposium on micro machine and human science. ieee; 1995. p. 3943. [39] owl working group, primerexampleturtle - owl. https://www.w3.org/2007/ owl/wiki/primerexampleturtle; 2008. accessed october 31, 2023. [40] u.s. department of energy. tips and tricks for using energyplus. https://energyp lus.net/assets/nrel_custom/pdfs/pdfs_v22.1.0/tipsandtricksusingenergyplus.pdf; 2022. accessed october 31, 2023. [41] davidson s. grasshopper - algorithmic modeling for rhino. https://www.grassh opper3d.com/; 2023. accessed october 31, 2023. [42] autodesk inc. learn - dynamo bim. https://dynamobim.org/; 2021. [43] negendahl k. building performance simulation in the early design stage: an introduction to integrated dynamic models. autom constr 2015;54:3953. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2015.03.002. [44] ladybug tools llc. intersect solids - honeybee primer, intersect solids - honeybee primer. https://docs.ladybug.tools/honeybee-primer/components/0_create/inte rsect_solids; 2023. [45] world wide web consortium. sparql 1.1 query language. https://www.w3.org/ tr/sparql11-query/; 2023. [46] horrocks i, patel-schneider pf, boley h, tabet s, grosof b, dean m, et al. swrl: a semantic web rule language combining owl and ruleml, w3c member submission21; 2004. p. 131. [47] dimyadi j, clifton c, spearpoint m, amor r. regulatory knowledge encoding guidelines for automated compliance audit of building engineering design. in: computing in civil and building engineering; 2014. p. 53643. https://doi.org/ 10.1061/9780784413616.067. appliedenergy367(2024)12331833 z. wu et al. [48] buildings department. the government of the hong kong special administrative region, building (planning) regulations. https://www.elegislation.gov.hk/h k/cap123f; 2012. [49] robert mcneel & associates. rhino3dmpypi. https://pypi.org/project/rhino3dm/; 2022. accessed october 31, 2023. [50] rdflib team. rdflib 6.2.0. https://rdflib.readthedocs.io/; 2022. accessed may 18, 2023. [51] u.s. department of energy's (doe) building technologies office (bto), national renewable energy laboratory (nrel). energyplus. https://energyplus.net/; 2023. accessed october 31, 2023. [52] fuller d, mcneil a. radiance - radsite. https://www.radiance-online.org/; 2017. accessed october 31, 2023. [53] nabil a, mardaljevic j. useful daylight illuminances: a replacement for daylight factors. energ buildings 2006;38:90513. [54] american society of heating, refrigerating and air-conditioning engineers, inc. ansi/ashrae/ies standard 90.1: energy standard for buildings except low-rise residential buildings. atlanta, ga, usa: ashrae; 2022. [55] kam m. 25.5 deg c and human comfort. report energy and efficiency office, the government of hong kong special administrative region. 2004. [56] zhang y. design criteria of built thermal environment for hot summer & warm winter zone of china. build environ 2015;88:97105. [57] us green building council. leed v4 for building design and construction. washington, d.c., usa: us green building council; 2019. [58] stanford center for biomedical informatics research. protege is a free, open-source ontology editor and framework for building intelligent systems. https://protege. stanford.edu/; 2020. accessed october 31, 2023. [59] zhang z, lu b. improving nsga-ii by a local search strategy with gaussian mutation. in: 2021 40th chinese control conference (ccc). shanghai, china: ieee; 2021. p. 162833. [60] jin y. surrogate-assisted evolutionary computation: recent advances and future challenges. swarm evolution comput 2011;1:6170. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. swevo.2011.05.001. appliedenergy367(2024)12331834

==== TABLES ====
brick:haslocati on gd:satisfied pgd:ha sindex pgd:actualvalu legend: pgd brick schema bot property domain brick:has location pgd:hascl imatezone rdf:type bedroom1_f1 rdf:type ashrae901 midriseapart_ electricequipment power_w_m2 r df:type rdf: type rdf: type rdf:t ype brick: value rdf: typ pgd:file storea
==== IMAGES ====
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page1_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page1_img2.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page1_img3.png
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page4_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page7_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page8_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page9_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page10_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page10_img2.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page13_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page14_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page14_img2.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page16_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page17_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page18_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page19_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page20_img1.jpeg
A knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page21_img1.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page1_img1.jpeg --- pe ihe, ez elsevier --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page4_img1.jpeg --- knowledge graph for performance-based generative design knowledge graph f knowledge graph generation from f p regulation and design 4 q model translation h schema i parametric design model ib knowledge extraction i kg to simulation model i . feo i i generation . hf ae i on i 1 dele oot egege e du seer eee os cc cm oe . oe i fe. ons hi . i i classes i parametric semantic knowledge graph regulations and reasoning iy knowledge graph building simulation properties idesign model enrichment model ii design knowledge rules fi madel model knowledge-informed optimization framework motte tor ee er rrr rene . pe pe ee pr pt ttt ttt ttt s sss sss 1 a 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 re ae a og c ees a ee sabi. 38 by ere y yp ey sat , knowledge graph compliance checking and excellent parametric design model with individuals performance evaluation cases performance simulation te--------------- le----------- ee 1--------- vo eee po po ne design parameters g optimization g performance index 1 t i 1 1 li-- eee ee ee et li- eee eee ee et to- eee eee e e e e e a overview of the knowledge-informed optimization framework for pgd of sustainable buildings form generation performance evaluation vo, i optimisation i . . b general pgd optimization framework 4 --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page7_img1.jpeg --- rdf-type rdftype pedchasaream2 384,16 bot hasbuilding borhasbuilding bothasbuilding bothasbuilding o df.type pedhasbuilding ty pe . residential rarty rdftype xsdstring botbunlding box house box house a - 6 cos 7 ped-chasnorthdirectiondeg 0.0 botchasstorey bothasstorey xsddouble rdftype mi bothasspace bothas space rdftype ma bot haselement bot-haselement y wal ot element rooi bedroom fl citing air wall bothassubelement bothassubelement , tovrtenen rdfitype window window out een bedroom fl . shading . sac . property property by reasoning legend instance peny erty . a site and building ce pedhasspacetype pedhasa ctivitylevel botsite bot space ped spacetype pgdactivitylevel bothasbuilding rdf-type 1 i 1 botbuilding ut le bedroom a pedhasnorthdirectiondeg 0.0 bothas storey rdfitype oo xsddouble tdftype pedhasoriginm 000 botstorey rdftype pgdhasspacetype 7 xsd string dchasc eilingh eightm bothasspace pe a 33 - xsdstring - pedhasflooraream2 14.85 . ttt ttt tt ttt ttt itd ttt a 82 por space centialcomidor f1 bedroom fl bedroom fy exse-doutie r f z x beets bothaselement dhasairfl pedsamethermalz one pedthasvolume ms 49.0 od r ea. pee nas artetow xsd double botelement pedhasextemalwall 5 way ped bothassubelement xsd string bot element legend instance property property by reasoning . ee ld b space --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page8_img1.jpeg --- pgdhasc onstruction pad hasmaterial botsite botelement ped construction pgdmaterial bothasbuilding rdfitype rdfitype rdf-type caine pot posse aay surfacel i climatez one2 i otbuilding bedroom1 f1 mass exterior wall - dhasroughness bothasstorey pedhassurfacet ype wall pe - a . smooth a - - sd string 7 4 . xsd string pedhasr valuemk w xsd string botstorey pedhasaream2 14.85 oly 0.037 1 . xsd double edhasthicknessm. xsd fowle bothasspace i pedhas vertex 1xm 12 an oe --- - xsd double xsd double pedhasc onductivitywmk ot space pgdshasvertex1ym 0.0 oy 0.69 a . xsd double bot va xsd double pedhasdensitykg m3 othaselement hacky, 1858.0 pedshasvertex1zm 3.3 xsd double . xsd double , xsd double a ce - botelement pedhass pecificheatjkg k 936.5 bothas subelement ped-hasvertex4zm 66 pgdhasthemala bsorptance xsd gounle a . xsd double pgdhassolarabsorptance xsd double botelement pgdhasnormalvectorxm 00 oy wd ble -- . . xsd double pedhasnormalvectory a xsd double pad hasvisibleabsorptance - oe 1.0 a xsd double pedhashasnommalvectorzm 84 double y 0.0 xsd double pgdhasoutsideboundaryc ondition . outdoors xsd string . ct tance proper property by reasonin legend vinstance pepeny propet by reasoning c building surface . pad hasc onstruction pgdhasmaterial botsite , , botelement pedconstruction pgdwindowmaterial bothasbuilding rdfttype rdf-type rdftype po e eee eee botbuilding window climatezone2 ro, i bedroom1f1 mass window simpleglazing bothasstorey pedhassurfacetype a window pgdhasufactorwm2k q xsd string ae 2.5551 botstorey q pgdhasaream2 35 xsd double bothasspace . xsd double padnasshoc 0.25 pgdhasvertex1xm 5.7 a xsd double tt botspace i xsd double pedhasv isibletransmittance pgdhasvertex1ym 1.2 ie oh bothaselement , xsd double xsd double . pgdhas vertex1zm 42 botel t - - emen a , xsd double bothas subelement pedhasvertex4zm 60 soy . xsd double botelement pgdhasnormalv ectorxm -1.0 7 pgdhasnormalv ectorym xsd double oy 0.0 pedhashasnormalvectorzm xsd double . 0.0 xsd double pgdhasoutsideboundary condition . outdoors xsd string levend tnstan ce property property by reasoning o a nora sn al la d fenestration surface --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page9_img1.jpeg --- pgdhasc onstruction botsite botelement pgdconstruction bothasbuilding rdftype rdfitype airwallsurfaceod i ace . botbuilding stairwellf1 aurboundary bothasstorey padhassurtacetype airwall a xsd string . dhasar 2 . botstorey adihasaresm2 5.94 d doubl bothasspace gd chas vertex 1xm xsd double . 2.7 ot s pace pgdhasvertex1ym 1.2 - - bothaselement xsd double pedhasvertex1zm 33 botelement 4 xsd double pedhasvertex4zm i bothas subelement oy 6.6 . xsd double botelement pedhasnormalvectorxm 0.0 pgdhasnommalvectorym xsd double 1.0 pgedhashasnormalvectorzm xsd double oy 0.0 xsd double pedhasoutsideb oundary condition . indoors xsd string legend class instance property property by reasoning. e air wall ped-hasconstruction pgdhasmaterial ped construction ped material bothasbuilding rdftype rdfttype rdftype . 1 i . 1 . botbuilding balcony bottom case shading normabweight bedrooml f1 ey conerete floor ae po concretefloor bothas storey pedhasroughness mediumrowel iumrough pedhasvertex1xm 57 pgdhasrvaluem2kw xsd string 7 xsd double ew bothass xsd double . ofnaropace dchasvertex 1y fetes xsd double ots pace xsd double sa conductivity w ssc double shasconductivi n bothaselement pedhas vertex1zm 33 5 i. 231 xsd double a xsd double oe xsd double bothassubelement pedhasvertex4zm 33 pedhasspecificheatjkgk 8315 e . a xsd double pgd-hasthermala bsorptance asd double - o pgdhassolarabsorptance xsd double 0.7 i , xsd double pedhas visibleabsorptance 07 xsd double 1 legend instance property property by reasoning oe a al e f shading surface --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page10_img1.jpeg --- parametric design model ia pgd-kg model botspace geometry botelement space surface identification or . surface types pgdhassurfacetype volumes of spaces pgdhasvolumem3 ss, floor areas of spaces pgdhasflooraream2 areas of surfaces pgdhasaream2 et reet ean vertex coordinates of surfaces pgdhasvertex1xm, ... semantic enrichment normal vectors of surfaces pgdhasnormalvectorxm, ... semantic information i - weather pgdweather and pad-climatezone a space type and activity level . padspacetype and padactivitylevel construction and material default or . padconstruction and pgdmaterial . . . electrical equipment, lighting manual setting 7 brickelectricalequipment, bricklightingequipment, equipment, and occupancy brickoccupancy, pgdpower and padschedule coolingheating setpoint brickcoolingheatingtemperaturesetpoint 2 nencen ene n cece nn nnn c ncn nn nnn e enn cnn c cnet b knowledge inference boundary conditions pgdhasoutsideboundarycondition topology relations pgdhasairflow --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page13_img1.jpeg --- window bedroom fl exteriordoorbedroom1f1 . pedhasairflow . pechasa irflow tt ee et bedroomlfl eo m s pedhasaitflow ot . f imterior door bedroom f le . o pedhasaitflow a cormdorbedrooml fl 2 airwallsurface2corridor bedrooml fl 222 eg ped hasaitflow f airwallsubo surfaceocentralcorridor fl - - 7 en pedhasaitflow eee oor m0 centralcorvidorf1 ne - ped hasairflow --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page14_img1.jpeg --- tc ret tt literature strategy reasoning algorithm leone ee es loe eee ee ee lie eee ee ee ee in text in machine-readable schema sun wim sent clustered rooms reduce skin querywindwardwindowarea % area, thus heatloss and gain. select sumarea as ove swl windwardwindowarea f ai where window rdftype botelement . b ss the greater the surface area of 2window pgdhassurfacet ype window . a building envelope, the more . van aes . energy will be needed to 2window w i overcome heat losses. a pad haso isideboundaryconaition sphere has the smallest 2window pgdhasaream2 area . surface area by volume of any window pgdhasnormalvectorxm omens form. in regions where winter nvx . 401 green studio heating is needed, a sprawling 5 window pgdhasnormalvectorym rules handbook single-storey building might use ny thu aa r 25% more energy than a onuytov4 onyy 5 compact two-storey cube of the m4 bind 2nvx0nvy1as costheta . .formatcosa,sina same floor area because it has filter 2costheta0.7071 a greater surface area through --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page14_img2.jpeg --- a het coordinate transformation matrix pn x zr fcos3 sing fa an y -singd cos y se building site boundary --l-p i legend t building coordinate true north coordinate ro --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page16_img1.jpeg --- i a ve . - a ns my the site hong kong nt a --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page17_img1.jpeg --- y sx lx jeoeeneeeeede-------- i 25 . 3 stairwell living sy l 3.0 y fans room main corridor we en za os x 1 ae i asy b ef ci 2 8 z 8 li--------- bh ee a legend room directed i room directed to x-axis i to y-axis a slots of the prefabricated modular units. s1 8 - 2 si gl 3 5 3 - g 3 3300, 4200 2700 3800 4800 module . bedroom main bedroom bathroom study kitchen a on ll sn nn j module aa . a combination wl mn a living room ll single bed ain nent om bathroom 1f stairwell single stud main bedroom 1f ingle study bedroom 1f kitchen gf bathroom gf 1 bedroom gf ee ach om rae a 7 oa oo en a b modules and module combination of the detached house the dashed lines show one example arrangement. --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page18_img1.jpeg --- . individuals. m88 oata property hierarchy dsh b obdject property hierarchy raft jofs3 38 asserted 3 asserted 9 asserted v owl thing airboundary mb owl topdataproperty vy gl owl tapodjectproperty v bot airwalsub0surtacedcentralcorridorf1 mm actualvalue y adjacent zone building element e airwallsub0surface2centralcorndorf41 mm filestoreat containszone interface mm has4ream2 mt has building airwallsub0surtace2centralcorridorgf mh v zone we hasceilingheightm jas space building aicwallsub1surface3livingroomf1 am hasconductivity wmk mm has storey site airwallsub1surtace3livingroomgf hasdensitykgm3 bieeds space airwallsub2surtace2centralcorridorf1 mm hasexternalwall vv has element airw mm hasflooraream2 ml adjacent element storey irwallsurface0corridorstudyf1 t contains element vs bnck airwallsurfaceostairwellf1 mm hasnormalvectorxm mm hasnormalvectorym im intersecting element equipment e airwallsurface0stairwellgf mm hash ect 2 has sub-element location airwallsurtace1centralcorndorf1 nasnorthdirection deg hasactivitylevel occupancy airwallsurtace1centralcorndorgf hasoriginm hasairf low 7 point airwailsurtace2corridorbedroom1f1 im hasoutsideboundarycondition nasbulldingtype ban coro eg pom airwallsurtace4stairwellf1 ml hasroughness hast onstruction y pg airwallsurtacesstairwellgf mm hasrvaluem2kw heslocation activitylevel ashrae9o1midriseapartelectricequipment mm has shgc mm nasilatenal buildingtype ashrae901midriseapartelectricequipmentpow has solarabsorplance mm haspoint constraint ashrae901midriseapartequipmentschedule as source haspower wm has specificheatjkgk sched construction ashrae9o1midriseapartlighting mm hassurtacetype hasschedule dealloadsair system ashraeso1midriseapartlightingwwm2 a hasthermalabsorptance has spacetype index ashrae901midriseapartlighting schedule hasthicknessm intertave of marea ashraeso1midriseapartoccupancy mm hasufactorwm2k wm intersectszone scneal le ashraes01midriseapartoccupancy schedule mm hasvertex1xm mm isfedby cpacer backdoorgf mm hasvertex1m mm slocationof pace ype balconybottombedroom1f1 mm hasvertextzm ispointot i weather 7 7 7 mm hasvertex2xm samethermalzone windowmaterial balconybottombedroom2f1 mm hasvertex2m balconybottombedroomgf mh hasvertex22m metrics axiom 4.620 logical axiom count 3.965 declaration axioms count 123 class count 45 object property count 31 data property count 44 individual count 236 annotation property count 8 --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page19_img1.jpeg --- case 1068 ae if sa sb sc sa se da dc ba 0 lane property assertions building heightj property assertions plotratio property assertions siteboundaryrange property assertions sitecoverage w actualvalue 6.6xsddouble mb upperlimit 3.3xsddouble m actualvalue 19.72828xsddouble m upperlimit 0.666xsddouble ge upperlimit 15.04xsddouble mb actualvalue 0.808444xsddouble mm actualvalue 15.0613744xsddouble mm actualvalue 0.3164xsddouble ge upperlimit 15.044xsddouble property assertions heightlimit property assertions plotratiocompliancej property assertions siteboundary property assertions sitecoveragecompliance mh hasindex buitdingheight mbhasindex ptotratio bhasindex siteboundaryrange mb hasindex sitecoverage i mm satisfied false , m5 satisfied true satisfied true msatistied true --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page20_img1.jpeg --- 6721 een, 49 sa, sre, 6725 open po, 12 3 f4o fof wo fol 2i1si4ajtofotfojfot1f23i4fifof1fojfot12 3f4 jolt 3s 13989 67.19 4.00 50 32.39 14013 67.20 4.10 50 30.69 14937 67.50 27.18 14578 67.51 32.39 wf 68 . aan l j a . wo . we ons, lat, oe 66 vee betsy eee ee fol 1234o jo1 180 rab ace. . 3972 67.18 4.00 50 30.69 64 pees se tee te ve ee a w. wo at id ae j on flak sy let is ae 7. lee ee s ce cae a eee es se 60 . oe eee 4 of bae fol 23 4oof1 fo 58 bora ah dr 13859 66.85 30.69 e ae panne non-pareto optimal solutions eo 8 eo fete oh com 54 7 pareto optimal solutions os oss tee pe non-pareto optimal solutions selected by reasoning we etd 52 pareto optimal solutions selected by reasoning rol4i32001 0 13500 14500 15500 16500 17500 13789 64.05 4.07 50 30.69 acl kwh nee laclkwh udi % i shape factor i fol 14 3 2o o1 ol i airflow node --- text from a knowledge informed optimization framework for performance based generative design of sustainable buildings_page21_img1.jpeg --- 68 om of 66 eee ae spee no os. . 64 ose oi eae ae ae, 2 i 3 ys 6 ee eae see s ee , a. of as pate ee s are rg c% on 0 oo aus soe es . oe an 58 ee z pareto optimal solutions ar earth 5 oe pons. es 52 pareto optimal imal solutions selected b . . ai 7 i sp iy omni 54 5 non-pareto optimal srrosle mer ss . 50 ing areto opti al soluti eee parete optimal solutio on pee me se am pareto optimal s. uti bey ean a vate aati inal solutions selected b , j ions selected ying 68 threshold 75 3500 14500 ane . 15500 16. 501 7 a acl kwh me ate reshold ts. avers . 641 ost si ease ce ee oe ee 66 io 3 2 tepe 62 ts cee oe os us ae oe dew i tee hot te a od a ae y.- qe a8 ae eee bare le eo ae a erg bettis ile et ee iv 8 sae red 56 weg eae ie as ao ere pike neces thee . . 3 oth i vay piel mies rca a ss 5. non- . . ak - au ee . oa ae are ry soe optinal sa geico caan ox, wee gee fer ae a 56 oes nnd wae 0 sata se pete me, oe res io 1 3 . 52 pareto optimal imal solutions selected b . im . sam ss e eae 5 on a 7 ji tg jy emg s44, pon-pareto optimal ore bs sdn veo 500 asoning areto opti al solutio weet y a 15500 1 nownattbon solutions mores m 7 utions select reasoning select c cason 68 c threshold 40 - . 15500 16. . 50 66 nr ae a 7 as ofegre ie s . - ra ca on pepe ok ee or, pee aor, os x bfe oer x. o , a re peden ie ras loan a ae ee se cs ne . ss e 62 2% rn a ramee ts ra ie shes f lata , on ee, el a an 58 . spee ne - x id a nd err i a pes efes 3 byer ae ae bc re ia oan 08 ou ses wa non- . ae raeas . 2 ct . ga song aptnal slo ris es es br tk in . net reo imal sluts tego neots 56 oes - ete iy ae sna u 3 fe % . ae eo aad jae 52 1 pareto optimal imal solutions selected by t int a le sotto see y reasoning 54 42 non-pareto opti 2 an a ess vee . 14500 asoning parcto opti ptimal solution hon an 15500 16 2 nan eaetoop solutions tes 7 ac 500 pare ree yin ib 52 to optimal solutions sele neem enel e ts s selected by reasoning a 14500 15500 vecon 165 acl kwh mo thre shold old 10%
