==== TEXT ====
language resources and evaluation (2025) 59:10431082 https://doi.org/10.1007/s10579-024-09747-7 original paper briseplandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations gbor recski1  eszter ikldi1  bjrn lellmann1,2  dm kovcs1,3  allan hanbury1,4 accepted: 29 april 2024 / published online: 6 july 2024  the author(s) 2024 abstract we present the brise-plandok corpus, a collection of 250 text documents with a total of over 7000 sentences from the zoning map of the city of vienna, annotated manually with formal representations of the rules they convey. the generic rule for- mat used by the corpus enables automated compliance checking of building plans, a process developed as part of the brise (https:// smart city. wien. gv. at/ en/ brise/) project. the format also allows for conversion to multiple logic formalisms, includ- ing dyadic deontic logic, enabling automated reasoning. annotation guidelines were developed in collaboration with experts of the citys building inspection office, describing nearly 100 domain-specific attributes with examples. each document was annotated independently by two trained annotators and subsequently reviewed by the authors. a rule-based system for the automatic extraction of rules from text was developed and used in the annotation process to provide suggestions. the reviewed dataset was also used to train a set of baseline machine learning models for the task of attribute extraction, the main step in the rule extraction process. both the rule-based system and the ml baselines are evaluated on the annotated dataset and released as open-source software. we also describe and release the framework used for generating and parsing the interactive xlsx spreadsheets used by annotators. keywords rule corpus  rule extraction  annotation,  rule-based methods  deontic logic  automated compliance checking * gbor recski gabor.recski@tuwien.ac.at federal ministry of finance, vienna, austria 1 tu wien, vienna, austria 2 3 budapest university of technology and economics, budapest, hungary 4 complexity science hub, vienna, austria vol.:(0123456789) 1044 1 introduction g. recski et al. the majority of legal adjudication is in many countries an administrative process, typified by routine decisions on what is admissible based on legal text and legal precedent. the high volumes of such administrative adjudications can lead to back- logs, inconsistencies, high resource loads for government departments, and uncer- tainty for citizens (branting et al., 2018). the city of vienna, austria, initiated the brise project as part of an e-government initiative to improve the efficiency of adjudication processes. the brise project is overall concerned with transforming the process of applying for building permission from a paper-based submission pro- cess to a digital submission process, in which digital plans of buildings are submit- ted instead of paper print-outs. part of the project, considered in this paper, involves developing a decision support system for the building inspectors based on automated compliance checking of building plans. beyond the vienna building code, there exist around 1000 documents describ- ing exceptions to the building code in sub-areas of the city1these documents are the focus of this paper. in order to allow automated compliance checking of some aspects of a building submission, we consider methods for automatically convert- ing the rules written as text in these documents into a formal representation to allow automated reasoning on these rules. in this paper, we describe the creation of a man- ually annotated corpus of sentences from these documents as well as experiments with rule-based and machine learning approaches to automatically extracting the rules. the main contributions of this paper are the following:  a formal rule representation for building regulations of the zoning map of the city of vienna  annotation guidelines for 100+ attributes, developed with domain experts  the brise-plandok corpus of 7000 sentences from building regulations with gold standard rule annotation  a rule-based system for extracting rules from text via semantic parsing, evalu- ated on the brise-plandok corpus  baseline supervised learning systems for the attribute extraction task, trained and evaluated on the brise-plandok corpus the paper is structured as follows. section 2 presents related work on rule corpora and rule extraction. section 3 describes the rule extraction task. section 4 presents data preprocessing steps. section 5 documents the annotation process. section 6 pre- sents the rule-based system for mapping text to formal rule representations, sect. 7 evaluates the rule-based system and machine learning baselines. section 8 concludes the paper. the brise-plandok corpus and all software described in this paper is available on github2 under an mit license. 1 referred to as besondere bestimmungen or special provisions. 2 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1045 2 related work our overview begins with recent work on the construction of annotated corpora of legal texts in sect. 2.1, followed by a review of approaches to the automatic extrac- tion of rules from text. section 2.2 surveys natural language processing applications in the construction domain, including several recent attempts at rule extraction for automated compliance checking. 2.1 rule corpora and rule extraction despite increasing interest in the automatic analysis of legal text and the growing number of legal corpora, very few datasets contain annotation that explicitly encodes the contents of legal text. popular tasks in legal natural language processing include prior case retrieval (al-kofahi et al., 2001; shao et al., 2020), judgement prediction (martin et al., 2004; strickson and de la iglesia, 2020), summarization (kanapala et al., 2019; moens et al., 1999), and semantic segmentation (kalamkar et al., 2022; saravanan et al., 2008). datasets used to develop and evaluate approaches to these tasks typically only include text annotation relevant to the given task. german legal corpora have also been developed for such applications, these include datasets for legal information retrieval (wrzalik and krechel, 2021) and for the summarization of german court rulings (glaser et al., 2021). datasets that formalize the contents of legal text include a corpus of business constracts translated to logical form (gov- ernatori, 2005) and the ledgar dataset (tuggener et al., 2020) containing auto- matically generated labelings of provisions in material contracts made available by the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec). a small manually labeled corpus of 601 sentences from the german civil code addresses the problem of clas- sifying legal norms by semantic type (waltl et al., 2019), a subtask of rule extrac- tion that is similar to the modality classification task described in this paper. an approach to extracting norms from business contracts is presented by aires et al. (2017), who also contribute manual annotation of 9864 norms in 92 contracts from a corpus of australian contracts (curtotti and mccreath, 2011). the approach to rule extraction presented in this paper relies on a combination of syntactic and semantic parsing for attribute extraction and simple pattern-based detection of attribute roles and rule modality. an earlier version of our system is evaluated on a manually annotated dataset of 10 documents and 193 sentences in recski et al. (2021). a similar combined approach is taken by dragoni et al. (2016), who use syntactic constituency parsing, information from the lexical ontology wordnet (miller, 1995), and pattern-based term extraction for identifying concepts in the australian telecommunications consumer protections code, and annotate them with deontic labels. their pipeline for identifying logical relationships between chunks of text also includes the boxer framework (ahn et al., 2005) for construct- ing discourse representation structures using a combinatory categorial grammar (ccg) parser and ccg supertagging (curran et al., 2007). another combination of constituency parsing and pattern matching is presented by wyner and peters (2011) and is applied to an excerpt from the u.s. code of federal regulations describing 1046 g. recski et al. some compliance rules of the food and drugs administration (fda). this system also relies on a lexical ontology, logical relations are identified based on thematic roles that are detected using verbnet (kipper et al., 2008). 2.2 nlp in the construction domain the brise-plandok corpus presented in this paper contains annotated building reg- ulations and has been developed as part of a project for digitalizing the compliance review process of the city of vienna. recent approaches to the modeling and extrac- tion of regulations in the construction domain vary greatly both in their choice of semantic representation and their methods for mapping text to such representations. kruiper et al. (2021) create the scotreg corpus of scottish building regulations, define a sequence labeling task that is a combination of shallow parsing (chunking) and semantic role labeling, assigning labels such as action and object to spans of text that are also syntactic constituents, and annotate 200 sentences using this representation to create the spar.txt dataset, which they use to train a standard deep learning architecture consisting of bert embeddings, bidirectional long short- term memory (bi-lstm) and conditional random fields (crfs). on the test por- tion of the dataset their models achieve precision, recall, and f1 scores around 80%. the system described in zhang and el-gohary (2015) is a pipeline of rule-based systems for extracting attribute-value pairs from text and for using these to construct logic rules. the extraction component uses a combination of part-of-speech (pos) tagging, constituency parsing, as well as gazetteers of terms conveying negation, modality, units of measurement, and comparative relations. the rule construction module consists of a set of patterns for mapping sets of such attributes to logical formulae, followed by rules for conflict resolution. the authors evaluate their sys- tem on only quantitative requirements from a chapter of the international building code (ibc). on the task of extracting individual logic clause elements (concepts and relations) they report overall precision and recall values of 98.2 and 99.1%, respectively. the integration of this pipeline into a unified framework for automated compliance checking (acc) is described in zhang and el-gohary (2017). a frame- work for iteratively expanding the set of rules used by this system is developed by xue and zhang (2022) using a human-in-the-loop approach, similar to our process for creating the rule-based attribute extraction system presented in sect. 6 of this paper. another nlp pipeline that implements rules operating over pos tags, con- stituents (chunks), and gazetteers, is that of guo et al. (2021), who also automati- cally map the extracted elements to the ifcowl ontology using both string-based matching and wordnet-based semantic similarity using the wu-palmer metric (wu and palmer, 1994). the case study they describe involves applying the system to automated compliance checking of a single building, we do not have knowledge of any additional evaluation of the approach. finally, another recent approach to the automatic parsing of building regulations is that of fuchs et al. (2022), who train an encoder-decoder model using the transformer architecture (vaswani et al., 2017) in an attempt to perform end-to-end parsing of natural language sentences into logic formulae. their experiments are based on a dataset created by dimyadi et al. (2020) brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1047 and containing a sample of the new zealand building code (nzbc) mapped to the xml-based legalruleml (lrml) format (athan et al., 2013). the training data is created by extending this corpus using data augmentation techniques and a variety of out-of-domain semantic parsing datasets. evaluating multiple transformer-based baseline architectures the authors report f-scores around 40%, measured on sets of atomic elements of the lrml formulae to reward partial matches in incorrect formulas. manual error analysis concludes that despite the low figures reasonable structure was learnt (fuchs et al., 2022, p. 8). while the focus of our review is the automatic processing of natural language regulations, we note that approaches to the semantic modeling of building regula- tions have also been developed for manual formalization. this work includes the development of an object model for a section of the england and wales building regulations (malsane et al., 2015), the translation of the korean building act into an executable format (lee et al., 2016), and the manual mapping of uk building codes to a regulation ontology (beach et al., 2015). 3 the rule extraction task construction in the city of vienna is regulated by the citys building code (bauord- nung3), which contains general rules as well as exceptions and special regulations specific to a particular area (plangebiet). nearly 1200 text documents contain area- specific regulations, and extraction of their contents into structured, machine-inter- pretable form is a key task in the digitalization of the construction approval process undertaken in the brise project. in this section we first present the formal rule rep- resentation, then show how the task of mapping raw text to such representations was divided into several subtasks, in order to simplify the annotation process for non-experts and to enable automatic rule extraction with rule-based and machine learning methods. 3.1 rule representation some typical sentences from the area-specific regulations are presented in fig. 1. following an initial review of several hundred similar sentences and of legislation that explicitly defines the possible scope of such area-specific rules, we developed a generic representation of rule contents using attribute-value structures in the json format. formal representations of the example sentences in fig. 1 are presented in fig. 2. the modality field can take one of three val- ues and indicates whether the rule conveys obligation, permission, or prohibition. the content of each rule is represented as a list of attributes, e.g. in sentence 6833_21_0 the value of dachart roof type is flachdach flat roof. the role of each attribute in the rule structure is indicated by its type, which can take one of 4 values. the content type indicates attributes 3 https:// www. ris. bka. gv. at/ gelte ndefa ssung. wxe? abfra ge= lrw & geset zesnu mmer= 20000 006 1048 g. recski et al. that are regulated by the rule, as opposed to attributes of the type condition that describe the circumstances under which the rule applies. both of the example sentences in fig. 1 contain one attribute each of these two types. some rules also contain exceptions, these are represented by attributes of the types conditionexception and contentexception. a con- ditionexception restricts the conditions of a rule, such as in 7922_3_1 nicht als fuweg ausgewiesene straenquerschnitte bis unter 8,0 m sind als wohnstraen auszugestalten road cross-sections below 8.0 m that are not des- ignated as sidewalks shall be designed as residential streets.. a contentex- ception describes an exception to the content attribute, such as the prohibi- tion in 7481_40_0 es darf nur ein fachmarkt, aber kein einkaufszentrum fr lebens- und genussmittel der grundversorgung errichtet werden. only a spe- cialty store may be built, but not a shopping center for basic foodstuffs. this sentence is also an example of a sentence containing multiple instances of the same attribute (in this case, widmung dedication), with different values. the full representation of this sentence is shown in fig. 3. attribute values may be booleans (true/false), e.g. the content of the prohibition in 7651_15_1 die errichtung von wohngebuden ist untersagt. the construction of residential buildings is prohibited. is the attribute verbotwohnung apartment prohibi- tion with the value true. all other kinds of values are represented as strings, even if they contain a numerical component, e.g. the attribute gehsteigbre- itemin minimum sidewalk width will have values such as 2.0 m, which is the literal string in the sentence denoting 2.0 ms (german uses the comma as the decimal separator), and its internal structure is not represented in the json format. the generic rule representation introduced here has the advantage that it is independent of any particular formalism used for reasoning with the resulting rules. this is important because in the literature a plethora of different such frameworks have been introduced, using a number of different formal represen- tations of the rules. examples include dyadic deontic logic (considered here), defeasible deontic logic (governatori, 2018), and input output logic (parent and van der torre, 2013). crucially, concepts like exceptions are modelled differ- ently in the different frameworks, sometimes making it impossible to translate from one of these into another. in order to ensure usefulness of the obtained rules for as wide a variety of reasoning frameworks as possible, we use the intermediary representation described above. the slight disadvantage of this approach is, that the rules cannot be used "out of the box" in a standard rea- soner, but this is outweighed by the flexibility gained by being able to translate them into such a wide variety of formalisms. the rule format is based on some assumptions that hold for most but not all rules in the corpus, such as that there is always a one-to-one mapping between sentences and rules or that each rule has exactly one modality. some consequences of these assumptions are men- tioned in various sections of the paper as we document the corpus creation pro- cess, and a summary discussion of all such caveats is provided in sect. 5.7. brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1049 fig. 1 sample sentences from area-specific regulations. sentence ids represent the location of the sen- tence, using the format documentid_sectionid_sentenceid (see sect. 4 for details) fig. 2 formal representations of the rules in fig. 1 3.2 rule extraction the rule format introduced in the previous section allows us to approach the task of automatic rule extraction in a step-by-step fashion. the pipeline of extraction steps described in this section is also the basis for the two-stage annotation pro- cess described in sect. 5. a major source of difficulty in extracting rules from text is the diversity of topics discussed. encoding all textual rules in the citys zoning plan required the definition of over 100 attributes, from anordnunggaertner- ischeausgestaltung gardening design required to vorstehendebau- elementeausladungmax maximum protrusion of building elements (the corresponding annotation guidelines of over 40 pages are available online4 and are described in sect. 5). we isolate this most challenging aspect of the rule extraction task by dividing it into 2 steps applied to each sentence: 1. detecting which of the defined attributes are mentioned, and 2. extracting the full rule representation. 4 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ guide lines 1050 g. recski et al. fig. 3 formal representation of 7481_40_0 es darf nur ein fachmarkt, aber kein einkaufszentrum fr lebens- und genussmittel der grundversorgung errichtet werden. only a specialty store may be built, but not a shopping center for basic foodstuffs. the rule contains two instances of the attribute wid- mung dedication, with different types and values the first step of the annotation process as well as of each of the rule-based and ml- based solutions we implement is the detection of attributes mentioned in each sentence, without regard to their values, types, or the modality of the rule conveyed by the sen- tence. this task, which we shall refer to as attribute extraction, is a multi-label clas- sification task. each sentence is mapped to the set of attributes they mention, without regard to their value or role in the full rule representation. sentences containing mul- tiple instances of the same attribute, such as the example in fig. 3, are labeled with a single instance. this greatly simplifies both the annotation process and the automated labeling, and multiplicity of labels can be reliably detected in the second step, when attribute types and values are determined. sentences not containing any rules are mapped to the empty set, those conveying a rule typically contain up to 3 attributes, but some contain as many as 6 (detailed descriptive statistics about the annotated dataset are provided in sect. 5.6). once sentences have been labeled with the attributes they mention, the full rule rep- resentation can be extracted by classifying attributes by type (condition, con- tent, etc.), finding their values, and determining the modality of the sentence. each of these pieces of information may either be indicated by the rule text, such as numerical and textual values of attributes or the modality of most rules, but in many cases they can also be inferred from the semantics of the attributes. for example, some boolean attributes always appear with the same value (such as anordnunggaertneris- cheausgestaltung gardening design required, which, if present, is always true), while others always have the same type (such as durchfahrtbreite pas- sage width, which only appears as content). the two-stage process of annotation described in sect. 5 ensures that such inferences are made automatically before per- forming human annotation of types, values, and modalities. brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1051 4 data preprocessing the zoning plan of the city of vienna and accompanying text documents are avail- able online5 to the general public. text regulations are published in pdf documents, one for each planning area. the total number of documents is close to 1500, the exact number changes as new documents are issued or existing ones retracted. for the corpus presented in this paper we used documents downloaded in december 2020. pdf filenames indicate the four-digit id number of the planning area they refer to (e.g. plandokument_7299), the number may be followed by one or two additional characters indicating if the document is supplementary to the main docu- ment regulating a given area. 1433 pdf documents were downloaded, of which 256 contained image data only, these were not processed further. we then used the pdf- 6 tool to extract the text content from the remaining 1177 documents. totext the next steps involved the segmentation of text documents into sections, then into sentences and words. the pdftotext tool preserves the visual layout of text in pdf documents using newline characters in its output. this allowed us to infer the section structure of each document based on line breaks and using regular expressions for detecting section headers. whitespace characters were then normal- ized in each section, any number of consecutive whitespace characters was replaced by a single space. finally, the text in each section was split into sentences and words 7 nlp library. many errors in the using the default german model of the stanza detection of sentence boundaries was caused by abbreviations such as abs. (absatz paragraph), zl. (zahl number), kat. (kategorie category), etc. a second group of segmentation errors was caused by dates containing the name of a month after the number indicating the day, e.g. 1. oktober october 1st, which also caused stanza to falsely detect a sentence boundary. all of these errors were fixed by inserting an additional processing step into the stanza pipeline, implemented as the stanza 8 in the tuw-nlp library, which reverses splits by merg- processor fix_ssplit ing pairs of consecutive sentences if the first one ends in one of 8 abbreviations that we listed manually9, or if the split occurs before the name of a month. we also use this module to undo splits on colons (:), to ensure that all information relevant to a rule remains in a single sentence, such as in the sentence 7808_12_0 fr die mit bb2 bezeichnete grundflche wird bestimmt: es drfen keine bauwerke err- ichtet werden. for the area marked by bb2 it is determined: no structures may be erected. sentences output by the fix_ssplit module are then processed further by default stanza components for tokenization, part-of-speech (pos) tagging, and universal dependency (ud) parsing. these analyses are used by the pattern-based 5 https:// www. wien. gv. at/ flaec henwi dmung/ public/ 6 https:// poppl er. freed esktop. org/ 7 https:// stanf ordnlp. github. io/ stanza/ 8 https:// github. com/ recski/ tuw- nlp/ blob/ main/ tuw_ nlp/ text/ segme ntati on. py 9 the 8 abbreviations processed by the fix_ssplit module are the following: abs., zl., pr., kat., kat.g., lit., onr., bzw. 1052 g. recski et al. rule extraction system described in sect. 6, which supports the human annotation process (see sect. 5) and is also evaluated as a standalone solution in sect. 7. 5 annotation and corpus creation we document the annotation and review process implemented to create the brise- plandok corpus. section 5.1 provides a high-level overview, sect. 5.2 describes the annotation guidelines, and sect. 5.3 documents all technical details of the annotation process. section 5.4 presents the review process used to finalize the gold standard annotation of the corpus, sect. 5.5 describes postprocessing steps, sect. 5.6 provides statistics about the annotation process (agreement and performance) and about the final brise-plandok corpus, and sect. 5.7 discusses some caveats. 5.1 overview in sect. 3 we have defined the rule extraction task as a series of two subsequent steps. attribute extraction is the multi-label classification task of establishing the set of attributes mentioned in a sentence, while rule construction includes the extrac- tion of attribute values (strings, numbers, boolean values, etc.), the classification of attributes by type (condition, content, etc.) and the classification of sentences by modality (obligation, permission, prohibition). the human annotation process was organized in two steps corresponding to these two tasks. all annotation output was subsequently reviewed by the authors to create the gold standard annotation of the brise-plandok corpus. a high-level overview of the annotation and review process is presented in fig. 4, details of each step are documented in sect. 5.3. the attribute extraction task is the first and most complex task in the annotation process. non-expert annotators are required to choose for each sentence one of over a hundred different attributes based on written guidelines (see sect. 5.2) and limited amount of direct training. we reduce this workload in multiple ways. a rule-based attribute extraction system provides high-precision suggestions that annotators need only check for correctness. since the rule-based system was developed to predict the most frequent attributes in the data (see sect. 6), this step could provide suggestions for over 90% of sentences containing rules, and nearly 80% of all gold attributes was based on a correct automatic suggestion (see sect. 5.6 for detailed figures). additionally, the expert review of annotations (see sect. 5.4) was performed in parallel and gold standard annotations established by experts were used to pre-anno- tate sentences in new documents for which the ground truth annotation was already available from a previous document. the coverage of this step was increased by con- sidering two sentences identical if they only differ in numerical characters, corre- sponding to the common case when different values of an attribute are specified in the same way. the decision to run the review process in parallel to the annotation by non-experts also allowed us to discover and resolve contradictions and ambiguities of the guidelines at an early stage. brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1053 5.2 guidelines the attribute extraction task is a multi-label annotation task that maps each sentence of the zoning plan documents to the set of all attributes mentioned in the text. the annotation guidelines defining each attribute were created in an iterative process. an initial set of required attributes was provided by domain experts working in the brise project to implement automated compliance checking of construction pro- posals. we constructed the first version of the guidelines using this list and the citys building code (wiener bauordnung,10 henceforth wbo) that regulates the types of requirements that zoning plan documents may contain. we then annotated an ini- tial set of 5 documents using these guidelines, updating the definitions and adding examples to each attribute as we encountered them. we then organized a series of workshops with 10 officers of the citys building authority (ma37 baupolizei,11 henceforth ma37), representing all three regional offices (vienna west, east, and south) of the authority. the officers of ma37 acted as domain experts to ensure the technical correct- ness of the attribute definitions and to identify ambiguities and missing attributes. after initial discussions that already lead to improvements of our guidelines, the 10 officers also performed the annotation task on small samples of documents. in the first phase, all experts annotated the same two documents, and later two batches of 4 documents each were independently annotated by groups of 3 or 4 annotators, with at least one officer representing each city region. we then calculated inter- annotator agreement for each attribute and each pair of annotators using cohens kappa, and ranked attributes based on average pairwise kappa across all annotators, to quickly identify problematic attributes. in each phase, our manual inspection of these attributes created the agenda for subsequent workshops that in turn led to corrections and simplifications of the annotation guidelines. workshops were con- ducted separately for each region in the first phase and for each annotation group in the second phase. after the initial meetings in october 2020, 7 two-hour work- shops were organized in the first phase and 13 workshops of 45 min each in the second phase. the last round of substantial updates and simplifications of the anno- tation guidelines was finished in april 2021 and the last workshop with ma37 took place in may 2021. all changes in the guidelines have been documented in its ver- sion history. the final version of the annotation guidelines12 defines 99 attributes, divided into 14 categories based on topic. this categorization is not in any way related to the formal task, it serves the convenience of the annotators navigating the document and the annotation spreadsheets (see sect. 5.3 for details). the document is gener- ated using custom latex macros. in addition to the definitions it contains an index of attributes and a version history. each attribute definition consists of a short descrip- tion, the specification of the type of value the attribute takes (e.g. text, boolean, integer or real number with or without a unit of measurement), and one or more 10 https:// www. ris. bka. gv. at/ gelte ndefa ssung. wxe? abfra ge= lrw & geset zesnu mmer= 20000 006 11 https:// www. wien. gv. at/ wohnen/ baupo lizei/ 12 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ guide lines 1054 g. recski et al. fig. 4 high-level overview of the annotation and review process example sentences from the zoning plan documents, where available, including sen- tence ids for reference. finally, each entry contains a citation of the specific passage of the wbo providing the legal basis for the use of the attribute in the zoning plan documents. 5.3 implementation we now give an overview of the human annotation process, followed by a detailed documentation of the tools and data formats used. the annotation of the brise- plandok corpus was performed by 6 university students with german as a first lan- guage and without domain-specific expertise. each annotator was contracted for 140 h of work, to be performed in two phases between september and december of 2021, and paid by an hourly rate of 16.90 euros for a total of c 2365. the first phase of the annotation included the attribute extraction task only. after an initial training phase using the same batch of 5 documents for each student, the remaining docu- ments were annotated by two students each. in addition to periodic workshops for discussing their questions, students also had access to a slack channel where they could ask questions and where our answers were visible to all students. the first phase ended after one month, at which time annotators reported an aver- age of 60 working hours per person and had annotated an average of 112 documents and an average of 3225 sentences. our review of the annotated documents ran in parallel, and the tasks for the second phase of the campaign were defined based on our experiences. in the second phase students were asked to classify previously brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1055 annotated attributes by type (content, condition, etc.) and to classify sentences by modality. extracting values of attributes was not part of the annotation campaign, these fields were partly filled using regular expressions (see sect. 6 for details) and manually checked during the review process. remaining work hours were used to perform both phases of the annotation on additional documents. at the end of phase 2 a total of 400 documents and 11513 sentences have been annotated by two stu- dents each, of which we reviewed 250 documents with 7049 sentences. remaining annotations may be used in future work for extending the brise-plandok corpus, either by additional review or by converting annotations to silver standard labels via simple heuristics such as majority voting. a total of 65 h were spent on the full review of the 250 gold standard documents. the data processing architecture used for the annotation and review process is represented in fig. 5. we conducted a survey of free annotation tools before deciding to develop our own custom software. after reviewing the functionalities of doccano,13 label stu- dio,14 brat,15 and inception,16 we determined that none of these libraries natively support the hierarchical labeling that is necessary to allow annotators to conveni- ently choose from a list of nearly a hundred labels for each sentence. we then devel- oped a custom tool17 based on the openpyxl18 library that programatically generates xlsx-formatted spreadsheets from the json files containing the preprocessed doc- uments. both annotation and review was performed by editing such sheets locally, eliminating the need to deploy and maintain a web-based service. generated spreadsheets were distributed to annotators via shared cloud storage. the multi-label classification task was implemented using a row of pairs of drop- down menus for each sentence, one for choosing the attribute category and one for specifying the attribute, an example is shown in fig. 6. the coloring of cells was used to indicate pre-filled attributes suggested by the pattern-based system (see sect. 6) and sentences for which attributes are present based on pre-existing gold standard annotation. these latter attributes were generated using a simple form of fuzzy matching that ignores digits, based on the observation that two sentences that differ only in numerical values always mention the same attributes. annotators were instructed that pre-filled attributes in gray must be checked and may have to be cor- rected, while gold sentences need not be checked but may also be corrected. completed spreadsheets were processed to extend the json representation of each document with fields containing the annotation provided by each student. these fields were then used in a subsequent step to generate the review spreadsheet, which presents a unified view of all annotations for each sentence and allows the reviewer to mark attributes as incorrect and/or to add missing attributes. figure 7 shows an example of the review spreadsheet for the attribute extraction task. after review, this spreadsheet is processed to add the gold standard attribute labels to the 13 https:// github. com/ docca no/ docca no 14 https:// label stud. io/ 15 https:// brat. nlplab. org/ index. html 16 https:// incep tion- proje ct. github. io/ 17 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ annot ation_ proce ss 18 https:// openp yxl. readt hedocs. io/ en/ stable/ 1056 g. recski et al. fig. 5 data evolution during annotation process json representations. annotation spreadsheets were generated in batches so that sentences that have already been reviewed can be pre-annotated in the spreadsheets of new documents, greatly reducing the workload of annotators. besides sentences that occur in many documents, this step also reduced the burden of scanning through boilerplate sentences, i.e. those that do not contain rules, since most of these are also reoccurring and thus became gold in the early stages of the parallel annotation and review process. when processing the completed spreadsheets, changes in the anno- tation of gold sentences triggered warnings for reviewers, this mechanism detects contradictions in reviewers judgements and also the rare case of an annotator decid- ing to correct a gold attribute. for the second phase we generated spreadsheets that allow annotators to classify sentences by modality and to specify attribute types (condition, content, etc.). figures 8 and 9 show sample spreadsheets for annotation and review, respectively. the zoning plan documents vary greatly in length, the average number of sen- tences in a document is 28.2 and the standard deviation is 14.5. when assigning documents to annotators, our goal was to distribute the workload equally, while also ensuring that each document is annotated by two annotators, but without fixed pairs of annotators. we therefore generated the 15 possible pairs of annotators and constructed 5 disjoint sets of 3 pairs, which we cycled through when distributing batches of documents. in order to partition each batch into balanced subsets of documents, an example of the np-hard multiway number partitioning problem, we used an implementation of the largest differencing method (karmarkar and karp, 19 library. this process yielded a highly 1982) from the numberpartitioning balanced distribution, each annotator was assigned at least 3457 and at most 3460 19 https:// github. com/ fugle de/ numbe rpart ition ing brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1057 fig. 6 annotation spreadsheet used in the first annotation phase. the yellow background indicates sen- tences with pre-existing gold annotations fig. 7 review spreadsheet used in the first annotation phase. the yellow background indicates sentences with pre-existing gold annotations, attributes with a gray background are pre-filled suggestions of the pattern-based attribute classifier fig. 8 annotation spreadsheet used in the second annotation phase. the yellow background indicates sentences with pre-existing gold annotations. (color figure online) fig. 9 review spreadsheet used in the second annotation phase. the yellow background indicates sen- tences with pre-existing gold annotations. (color figure online) sentences. all custom software used in the process described in this section is availa- ble from the brise-plandok repository, together with detailed documentation.20 20 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ annot ation_ proce ss 1058 5.4 review g. recski et al. due to the complexity of both the attribute extraction and rule construction tasks it was not possible to create a gold standard dataset automatically from labels assigned by non-expert annotators. as described in the previous section, each document was also subjected to manual review by the authors, for both annotation steps. the implementation details of the review process have been discussed in sect. 5.3, in this section we document our experiences and the decisions we made during the review process that allowed us to create a consistent gold standard annotation of the brise-plandok corpus. the attribute extraction task that we defined in sect. 3, and for which annota- tion guidelines were developed in an iterative process with domain experts (see sect. 5.2), introduces a mapping of all topics addressed in the zoning plan documents to a set of 99 attribute labels. this taxonomy was designed to make the annotation task as clear as possible, nevertheless the full set of reviewed documents contained several examples of ambiguities that had to be resolved in a consistent way. when encountering topics that did not clearly correspond to one of the defined attributes, we generally preferred not to annotate them with similar but essentially incorrect labels, even if the non-expert annotators were in agreement about which existing attribute is the closest match. for example, consider the sentence 7142_10_0 auf der mit bb3 bezeichneten, als bauland/industriegebiet gewidmeten flche sind ber die maximal zulssige gebudehhe hinaus technisch notwendige aufbauten bis zu einer hhe von 26,0 m zulssig. in the area marked bb3, designated as building land/industrial area, technically necessary superstructures up to a height of 26.0 m are permissible in addition to the maximum permissible building height, while it makes a reference to the maximum building height, it was not annotated with the attribute gebaeudehoehemaxabsolut maximum building height in absolute value, since the numerical value for this attribute is not present in the sentence. in case more than one attribute is applicable to the same piece of information in a sentence, our general principle was to choose the most specific one only. for example, the sentence 7916_7_0 flachdcher, deren flche je gebude 100 m2 bersteigt, sind im ausma von mindestens 60 v. h. ihrer flche nach dem stand der technischen wissenschaften zu begrnen. flat roofs whose area per building exceeds 100 m2 must be greened to the extent of at least 60 % of their area in accord- ance with the state of the art in technical science. was annotated with the attribute anteildachbegruenung percentage of greening but not with the less specific begruenungdach roof to green. in addition to the issues concerning the attribute extraction task, some ambigui- ties were also encountered in the rule construction phase, most of them due to the assumption that each sentence contains a single rule expressing a single modality (obligation, permission, or prohibition). this assumption, while clearly untrue for a small fraction of the sentences in the brise-plandok corpus, greatly simplified the annotation and review process. an example of a sentence containing multiple rules is 7719_12_0 auf der mit spk/p bb3 gekennzeichnete grundflche ist die errichtung von oberirdischen bauten untersagt, die errichtung von unterirdischen bauten ist gestattet. the construction of above-ground structures is prohibited in brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1059 the area marked spk/p bb3, the construction of below-ground structures is permit- ted, which could not be annotated with a single modality, in such cases we kept the value that had been selected by the annotators. in some other cases, a single modal- ity cannot be applied uniformly to all attributes, e.g. the sentence 7527_10_0 entlang der mit bb2 bezeichneten baulinien ist die errichtung von maximal 3,0 m hohen lrmschutzeinrichtungen bzw. vollflchigen einfriedungen zulssig. along the building lines marked bb2, the construction of noise protection facilities or full-surface enclosures of a maximum height of 3.0 m is permitted. was labeled as permission, but could also be interpreted as an obligation for the design and the height of the enclosure. simple statistics suggest that the non-expert annotation process greatly reduced the amount of expert effort necessary for creating the gold standard annotation. at the start of the first annotation campaign we observed that the full annotation of a sentence by the expert authors required an average of approx. 2.5 min, while the first reviews of annotated documents only required 1.5 min per sentence. by the end of the review process the time spent on a single sentence was less than one minute on average, which included not only the finalization of attributes, attribute types, and sentence modalities, but also the semi-automatic extraction of attribute values and the ongoing improvement of the rule-based system used to support the annotation and review process. in the end, the 840 person-hours (approx. 5 person-months) of non-expert annotation were augmented with a total of 90 person-hours (approx. 0.5 person-month) of expert review to create the gold standard annotation of the brise- plandok corpus, which also included time spent on improving the task-specific pat- terns used by the rule extraction system described in sect. 6. detailed evaluation of inter-annotator agreement and annotator performance is presented in sect. 5.6. 5.5 postprocessing the final step of the corpus construction process involved automated postprocess- ing of annotations based on feedback from experts in the brise project responsible for integrating the output of our rule extraction module into a system for automated compliance checking of digital building plans. most changes described in this sec- tion involve splitting or merging of attributes using simple patterns, to improve the inter-operability of our rule extraction module and the expert system used in the brise project. on a case-by-case basis we decided to also implement some of these changes in the brise-plandok corpus, thereby updating the gold standard annota- tion established by the review process. the remaining transformations, which we did not consider valuable for the published dataset, are implemented in a project- specific application that is used to serve api requests based on the annotated dataset (for the 250 gold documents) and the output of our rule extraction system (for all other documents). for the sake of completeness we document both types of changes. tables 1, 2, 3 and 4 show the changes implemented in the brise-plandok corpus. additionally, the plangebietallgemein general plan area attribute was renamed to gesamteplangebiet entire plan area. changes not implemented in the brise-plandok corpus involve converting the json structure to a format 1060 g. recski et al. compatible with the expert system, adding metadata about the type of the attributes and removing units from numeric values. migration to the updated format was performed in a semi-automated way. sen- tences affected by an attribute change were annotated by manually confirming or correcting the output of the rule-based system that was also used to provide attrib- ute suggestions to annotators, but at every step the rule system was updated with patterns describing the newly created attributes. this way the migration process resulted not only in updated attributes in the gold standard annotation but also in an improved rule system that also covers the new attribute set. this semi-automatic migration process took a total of 21 h of manual work, 12 of which was needed for the the most complicated attribute, widmungundzweckbestimmung, which occured in 736 unique sentences in the dataset. scripts used for the migration pro- cess are available in our github repository.21 5.6 statistics in this section we present statistics on inter-annotator agreement, annotator perfor- mance (evaluated by comparing annotations to gold labels), and the accuracy of automated suggestions presented to annotators, as well as descriptive statistics about the final brise-plandok dataset. the figures presented here are a summary of the more detailed statistics that are available from our repository22 together with the code used to calculate them. inter-annotator agreement on the task of attribute extraction is calculated for each attribute and for each pair of annotators using cohens kappa23 calculated using the implementation of scikit-learn.24 figures for the 20 most frequent attributes are presented in table 5. notably, the two common labels widmun- gundzweckbestimmung and flaechen that were later split due to the high variety of topics they cover (see sect. 5.5) show considerably lower average agree- ment scores than most other frequent classes. these labels also led to low annotator performance, these figures are presented for the top 20 most frequent attributes in table 6. inter-annotator agreement on the task of classifying attributes by type (con- dition, content, etc.) is presented for the 20 most frequent attributes in table 7. while average agreement scores are generally in the 0.8 1.0 range, once again the two complex attributes widmungundzweckbestimmung and flaechen show considerably lower scores than other frequent attributes. these attributes are split for the final dataset (see sect. 5.5), and this also reduces the variability of attribute types. for example, the split of the umbrella category  21 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ full_ attri bute_ extra ction/ migra tion/ readme. md 22 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ stat/ docs 23 cohens kappa is intended for measuring agreement between no more than two annotators, and in our setup it is in fact never more than 2 students who are assigned the same set of documents (see sect. 5.3 for details). 24 https:// scikit- learn. org/ stable/ modul es/ gener ated/ sklea rn. metri cs. cohen_ kappa_ score. html brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1061 table 1 the attribute flaechen area was split into four new sub-attributes new attribute example bebauteflaechemax maximum area to build on bebauteflaechemaxprozentual maximum area to build on in percentage bebauteflaechemaxnebengebaeude maximum area to build on for a side building bebauteflaechemin minimum area to build on die bebaute flche darf insgesamt nicht mehr betragen als 300 m2 the built-in area must not be larger than 300 m2 es drfen hchstens 20 v.h. dieser grundflchen berbaut werden bauplatz30 m2 at most 20% of these areas can be built on die mit nebengebuden bebaute gesamtflche darf je nicht berschreiten pro building plot the built-in area of a side building must not be more than 30 m2 die dcher von gebuden mit einer bebauten flche von mehr als 12 m2 von 15 begrnen sind bis zu einer dachneigung entsprechend dem stand der technik zu 12 m2 the roofs of buildings with a built-in area of at least and with a roof pitch of maximum 15 are to be greened with state-of-the-art technologies table 2 the attribute widmungundzweckbestimmung dedication and purpose was split into three new sub-attributes new attribute example widmung dedication nutzungsart type of usage bballgemein general building regulation signs der raum darunter ist der widmung gemischtes baugebiet/geschftsviertel zugeor- dnet the space below has the dedication of building land/business quarter die gebude sind der nutzung als kindergarten zuzufhren the buildings are to be used as kindergartens die struktureinheiten stre1, stre2, stre3, stre4 und stre5 bilden ein strukturgebiet the structure elements stre1, stre2, stre3, stre4 and stre5 form a structure area table 3 the attribute gebaeudehoehemax maximum building height was split into two new sub- attributes new attribute example gebaeudehoehemaxabsolut maximum building height in absolute value gebaeudehoehemaxwn maximum building height wrt to the viennese zero die gebudehhe darf hchstens 4.0 m betragen the building must not be higher than 4.0 m die gebudehhe ist mit 74.0 m .w.n. begrenzt the height of building is restricted to 74.0 m above the viennese zero flaechen surfaces shown in table 1 creates the attributes bebauteflae- chemin minimum area built on and bebauteflaechemax maximum area 1062 g. recski et al. table 4 the attribute anfluchtlinie on the alignment line was migrated from boolean values to textual ones describing the type of the alignment line new value example fluchtlinie bei einer straenbreite ab 10,00 m sind entlang der fluchtlinien gehsteige mit mindestens 2.00 m breite herzustellen alignment line from a street width of 10.00 m along the alignment lines sidewalks must be baulinie constructed with a minimum width of 2.00 m ebenso ist an allen baulinien die errichtung von erkern, baikonen und vor- ragenden loggien untersagt building line the construction of oriels, balconies and protruding loggias are forbidden as well baufluchtlinie entlang der mit bb15 bezeichneten baufluchtlinie ist die herstellung von fenstern von aufenthaltsrumen von wohnungen zur verkehrsflche unzulssig building alignment line along the building alignment line marked with bb15, the construction of windows of habitable rooms facing traffic areas are not allowed straenfluchtlinie entlang der mit bb7 bezeichneten straenfluchtlinie ist die errichtung einer vollflchigen lrmschutzwand bis zu einer hhe von 3,5 m zulssig street alignment line along the street alignment line marked with bb7, the construction of a full- surface noise protection wall up to a height of 3,5 m is allowed verkehrsfluchtlinie entlang der mit bb9 bezeichneten verkehrsfluchtlinie ist die errichtung einer vollflchigen lrmschutzwand zulssig traffic alignment line along the traffic alignment line marked with bb9, the construction of a grenzlinie border line grenzfluchtlinie full-surface noise protection wall is allowed entlang der grenzlinie ist die errichtung von einfriedungen untersagt. along the border line the construction of enclosures are prohibited an der mit bb7 bezeichneten grenzfluchtlinie bzw. verkehrsfluchtlinie ist die errichtung einer durchscheinenden lrmschutzwand bis zu einer hhe von 3,0 m zulssig border alignment line on the area and border alignment line marked with bb7, the construction of a transparent noise protection wall up to a height of 3.0 m is allowed built on, the first of which always appears as a condition (e.g. in 7230e_7_0 auf den mit bb5 bezeichneten baulandflchen sind dcher von nebengebuden mit einer bebauten flche von mehr als 30 m2 als flachdcher auszufhren on the area marked bb5, roofs of side buildings occupying more than 30 m2 shall be constructed as flat roofs) while the second is always the content (e.g. in 6817e_16_0 die bebaute flche der zur errichtung gelangenden haupt- gebude darf jeweils hchstens 200 m2 betragen. the area occupied by the main building shall not occupy more than 200 m2 ). another attribute exhibiting low annotator agreement scores on type classification is gebauedehoeheart building height type, which describes how other attributes describing building height are to be interpreted and the question of their status as condition or content of a rule is unclear (see sect. 5.7). these attributes also cause low annotator performance on the gold dataset, as shown in table 8. brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1063 6 . 5 6 . 4 5 . 4 6 . 3 5 . 3 4 . 3 6 . 2 5 . 2 4 . 2 3 . 2 6 . 1 5 . 1 4 . 1 3 . 1 2 . 1 w g v a g v a q e r f t e s a t a d e h t n i s e t u b i r t t a t n e u q e r f t s o m 0 2 e h t r o f n o i t c a r t x e e t u b i r t t a f o k s a t e h t n o t n e m e e r g a r o t a t o n n a - r e t n i e s i w r i a p 5 e l b a t r t t a 5 4 3 8 8 3 8 4 3 3 7 3 1 6 3 9 1 8 8 3 3 3 3 1 3 8 5 3 9 3 3 4 7 1 9 7 6 7 3 8 9 . 3 8 . 6 6 . 8 9 . 5 9 . 3 9 . 6 9 . 7 9 . 9 8 . 7 9 . 6 6 . 1 8 7 . 1 1 1 1 3 9 . 7 8 . 7 9 . 5 9 . 0 0 . 5 7 . 0 9 . 5 6 . 2 8 . 5 8 . 1 8 . 2 8 . 9 7 . 1 1 2 0 . - 9 7 . 8 8 . 9 7 . 5 8 . 1 1 9 7 . 6 8 . 5 9 . 9 9 . 1 9 . 1 9 . 2 9 . 1 1 2 9 . 5 9 . 1 2 3 . 1 9 . 4 7 . 7 9 . 8 9 . 6 9 . 3 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 8 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 9 . 4 9 . 2 8 . 8 7 . 3 8 . 4 9 . 1 4 7 . 2 9 . 4 4 . 1 1 9 . 5 6 . 1 9 4 . 1 1 1 9 7 . 2 9 . 1 9 9 . 7 9 . 5 9 . 4 9 . 8 9 . 8 9 . 3 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 9 . 9 7 . 6 8 . 5 9 . 1 1 1 9 . 1 6 9 . 8 9 . 8 6 . 5 9 . 1 9 8 . 0 9 . 8 9 . 1 8 8 . 7 8 . 5 9 . 1 4 7 . 4 9 . 1 1 4 9 . 1 1 6 9 . 7 9 . 4 6 . 4 8 . 8 8 . 9 5 . 4 9 . 9 7 . 1 1 5 6 . 2 9 . 0 0 . 3 0 . - 1 1 1 1 9 6 . 1 1 9 9 . 2 9 . 2 9 . 1 1 2 9 . 6 9 . 1 9 7 . 7 9 . 7 9 . 1 8 . 1 9 . 6 9 . 7 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 9 9 . 2 9 . 1 1 1 8 9 . 1 5 9 . 2 8 . 1 8 9 . 3 8 . 1 8 8 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 7 9 . 9 9 . 1 5 9 . 7 9 . 7 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 6 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 6 8 . 2 8 . 1 1 1 6 9 . 1 8 9 . 2 9 . 1 8 9 . 7 8 . 1 6 9 . 1 1 1 1 6 9 . 1 6 9 . 2 9 . 9 7 . 1 2 6 . 5 9 . 1 2 9 . 2 9 . 0 8 . 1 0 5 . 5 8 . 2 8 . 5 8 . 1 1 1 1 1 5 9 . 3 9 . 0 9 . 1 4 8 . 1 0 9 . 1 1 6 6 . 1 0 0 . 5 6 . 1 1 1 1 1 8 8 . 1 8 9 . 5 9 . 4 9 . 1 4 9 . 1 9 . 6 9 . 1 0 9 . 3 9 . 7 9 . 5 9 . 8 5 . 2 9 . 1 1 1 5 8 . 8 9 . 1 1 9 . 3 9 . 9 9 . 8 8 . 0 9 . 8 9 . 3 9 . 5 9 . 5 9 . 8 9 . 0 9 . 5 9 . 8 9 . 6 7 . 6 8 . 7 8 . 9 9 . 8 9 . 9 9 . 6 9 . 7 9 . 8 9 . 9 8 . 0 9 . 8 9 . 2 8 . 8 8 . 7 9 . 8 8 . 4 9 . 3 9 . 7 9 . 0 9 . 1 9 . 6 9 . 0 7 . 9 7 . 5 8 . 8 9 . 7 9 . 8 9 . 5 9 . 7 9 . 8 9 . 7 8 9 1 1 6 1 1 1 9 7 7 5 4 3 9 3 6 5 3 3 3 3 3 0 3 4 9 2 0 9 2 2 8 2 1 7 2 9 6 2 5 5 2 7 4 2 5 3 2 3 1 2 7 0 2 7 0 2 6 7 1 s e c n e t n e s f o r e b m u n e g a r e v a ) d e t h g i e w ( e g a r e v a n e h c i e z n a l p b k c e w z d n u g n u m d i w d i e h c e a fl s r h e k r e v e i n i l t h c u l f n a n e h c e a l f a e h c s i r e n t r e a g g n u n d r o n a x a m e h e o h e d u e a b e g t r a h c a d n e n e b e n e r e r h e m n i g n u m d i w g n u z n a fl p e b g n u r h e k r o v t r a e h e o h e d u e a b e g e d u e a b e g g n u t h c i r r e n i e m e g l l a t e i b e g n a l p n e t l a h u z i e r f g n u u a b e b n o v h c a d g n u n e u r g e b g g u z e b x a m h c a d s s u l h c s b a n i m e t i e r b g i e t s h e g n i m e t i e r b n e s s a r t s p y t u a b e d u e a b e g g i s s e a l u z n e t u a b f u a s e t u b i r t t a l l a r e v o e g a r e v a d e t h g i e w e h t g n i t a l c u l a c r o f d e s u s i t i , d e t a t o n n a s a r o d l o g s a r e h t i e s r a e p p a e t u b i r t t a e h t h c i h w n i s e c n e t n e s f o r e b m u n e h t s i q e r f s r o t a t o n n a f o r i a p h c a e y b d e t a t o n n a s e c n e t n e s f o r e b m u n e h t y b d e t h g i e w s i w    , s e u l a v e s i w r i a p f o e g a r e v a e h t s i g v a 1064 g. recski et al. table 6 average annotator performance on the attribute extraction task for the 20 most frequent attrib- utes in the dataset name average (macro) planzeichen widmungundzweckbestimmung verkehrsflaecheid anordnunggaertnerischeausgestaltung dachart flaechen anfluchtlinie vorkehrungbepflanzung gebaeudehoeheart gebaeudehoehemax begruenungdach widmunginmehrerenebenen abschlussdachmaxbezuggebaeude errichtunggebaeude gehsteigbreitemin plangebietallgemein strassenbreitemin gebaeudebautyp unterbrechunggeschlossenebauweise aufbautenzulaessig freq precision (%) recall (%) 72.66 97.56 69.87 90.87 86.65 98.36 42.19 74.71 98.49 92.05 80.59 96.61 79.01 95.67 78.58 100.00 83.21 92.62 90.04 98.28 90.96 1844 916 400 292 282 281 276 274 242 232 220 219 219 213 207 189 177 175 154 152 85.59 97.50 45.46 83.69 96.92 96.68 97.39 91.10 95.66 93.73 98.57 98.59 91.86 99.29 61.01 99.05 68.96 96.43 98.57 100.00 97.47 freq is the number of gold attributes in the dataset after review and before postprocessing we also evaluate annotator agreement and performance on the task of clas- sifying sentences by modality. the average pairwise agreement between annota- tors measured by cohens kappa is 0.737. overall annotator performance (micro- average over all annotators) is presented in table 9. we measure precision both on the full dataset and on the set of sentences containing rules, this shows that many false positives were caused by the fact that the modality classification task implicitly included the task of deciding whether a sentence contains a rule or not. finally, we evaluate the automated suggestions provided to the annotators for the task of attribute extraction. these suggestions were based not only on our rule-based attribute extraction system (described in sect. 6 and evaluated on the final dataset in sect. 7), but also on existing gold annotation for sentences that occur repeatedly in documents and which have already undergone review as part of another document (see sect. 5.3 for details). in order to evaluate the contribution of this process to the manual annotation process we evaluate the correctness of suggested attributes at the time they were suggested to annotators. these figures are presented in table 10, both for the full set of sentences and for those containing a rule. this once again brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1065 6 . 5 6 . 4 5 . 4 6 . 3 5 . 3 4 . 3 6 . 2 5 . 2 4 . 2 3 . 2 6 . 1 5 . 1 4 . 1 3 . 1 2 . 1 w g v a g v a q e r f t e s a t a d e h t n i s e t u b i r t t a t n e u q e r f t s o m 0 2 e h t r o f d e t n e s e r p , e p y t y b s e t u b i r t t a g n i y f i s s a l c f o k s a t e h t n o t n e m e e r g a r o t a t o n n a - r e t n i e s i w r i a p 2 5 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 0 9 . 3 7 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 5 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 4 . 1 3 0 .  1 1 9 6 . 0 2 . 0 8 . 1 2 2 .  0 0 . 1 1 1 1 4 0 .  1 1 9 3 . 1 0 0 . 1 3 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 9 . 4 4 . 3 7 . 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 3 . 0 6 . 1 1 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9 1 . 1 9 5 . 1 4 2 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 3 8 . 4 7 . 2 8 . 0 0 . 0 6 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 8 0 .  8 0 .  0 0 . 8 1 . 0 0 . 9 2 . 1 1 1 1 2 6 . 9 4 . 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 3 7 . 1 1 1 7 7 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 5 .  0 0 . 0 0 . 1 5 7 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 4 6 . 7 8 . 1 0 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 8 0 .  1 1 6 2 . 1 9 5 . 8 5 . 1 1 1 1 2 6 . 6 6 . 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 4 . 1 7 5 . 7 4 . 1 1 1 7 7 . 6 7 . 0 9 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9 . 4 6 . 1 6 0 .  8 6 . 1 9 8 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 8 5 . 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 2 6 . 1 0 4 . 1 0 0 . 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 2 . - 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 0 5 . 1 8 7 . 3 9 . 1 1 1 4 9 . 9 8 . 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9 5 . 1 7 7 . 3 7 . 3 9 . 9 4 . 6 3 . 6 8 . 0 9 . 7 8 . 7 6 . 4 8 . 6 3 . 1 2 . 9 8 . 8 8 . 1 8 . 1 6 6 . 0 9 . 8 8 . 3 4 . 3 7 . 1 7 8 . 7 7 . 3 9 . 4 4 . 6 4 . 0 8 . 3 9 . 8 8 . 2 7 . 6 8 . 3 7 . 4 3 . 3 9 . 3 9 . 7 8 . 1 6 6 . 3 9 . 3 9 . 5 3 . 0 8 . 1 7 8 9 1 1 6 1 1 1 9 7 7 5 4 3 9 3 6 5 3 3 3 3 3 0 3 4 9 2 0 9 2 2 8 2 1 7 2 9 6 2 5 5 2 7 4 2 5 3 2 3 1 2 7 0 2 7 0 2 6 7 1 ) d e t h g i e w ( e g a r e v a n e h c i e z n a l p b k c e w z d n u g n u m d i w d i e h c e a fl s r h e k r e v e i n i l t h c u l f n a n e h c e a l f a e h c s i r e n t r e a g g n u n d r o n a x a m e h e o h e d u e a b e g t r a h c a d n e n e b e n e r e r h e m n i g n u m d i w g n u z n a fl p e b g n u r h e k r o v t r a e h e o h e d u e a b e g e d u e a b e g g n u t h c i r r e n i e m e g l l a t e i b e g n a l p n e t l a h u z i e r f g n u u a b e b n o v h c a d g n u n e u r g e b g g u z e b x a m h c a d s s u l h c s b a n i m e t i e r b g i e t s h e g n i m e t i e r b n e s s a r t s p y t u a b e d u e a b e g g i s s e a l u z n e t u a b f u a r o f d e s u s i t i , d e t a t o n n a s a r o d l o g s a r e h t i e s r a e p p a e t u b i r t t a e h t h c i h w n i s e c n e t n e s f o r e b m u n e h t s i q e r f s e t u b i r t t a l l a r e v o e g a r e v a d e t h g i e w e h t g n i t a l c u l a c . s r o t a t o n n a f o r i a p h c a e y b d e t a t o n n a s e t u b i r t t a f o r e b m u n e h t y b d e t h g i e w s i w    , s e u l a v e s i w r i a p f o e g a r e v a e h t s i g v a 7 e l b a t r t t a e g a r e v a 1066 g. recski et al. table 8 average annotator performance on the task of classifying attributes by type, overall and for the 20 most frequent attributes in the dataset attr average (macro) planzeichen widmungundzweckbestimmung flaechen verkehrsflaecheid anfluchtlinie anordnunggaertnerischeausgestaltung gebaeudehoehemax dachart widmunginmehrerenebenen gebaeudehoeheart vorkehrungbepflanzung errichtunggebaeude plangebietallgemein vonbebauungfreizuhalten begruenungdach abschlussdachmaxbezuggebaeude gehsteigbreitemin strassenbreitemin gebaeudebautyp aufbautenzulaessig freq precision (%) recall (%) f1 (%) 2932 1520 570 322 548 584 430 454 116 484 534 426 376 288 440 438 310 354 344 304 92.50 99.52 74.67 92.55 96.13 99.62 95.20 86.70 93.36 86.32 46.81 99.80 99.63 100.00 98.88 100.00 97.47 99.34 99.13 72.46 98.63 80.99 98.09 30.07 91.58 92.55 95.07 91.78 84.88 89.87 70.69 45.45 94.38 63.38 81.12 92.01 98.64 96.58 96.45 96.33 70.35 94.41 86.36 98.80 42.87 92.06 94.30 97.29 93.46 85.78 91.58 77.73 46.12 97.02 77.47 89.57 95.32 99.31 97.02 97.87 97.71 71.39 96.47 attribute-level figures are micro-averages over type labels and annotators, the overall average is the macro-average over attributes more detailed figures for all attributes are available online (see recent footnotes for urls) sentences containing multiple instances of the same attribute are omitted to simplify evaluation table 9 annotator performance on the task of classifying sentences by modality modality prec. (sens) (%) prec. (rules) (%) recall (%) prohibition permission obligation empty 91.99 85.26 85.32 97.24 94.00 88.47 93.03 76.84 72.62 96.30 89.10 precision is calculated both on the full set of sentences and on sen- tences that contain rules illustrates the additional complexity caused by the implicit task of deciding whether a sentence conveys a rule or not. we conclude this section by presenting simple descriptive statistics about the final brise-plandok dataset in table 11. for the purposes of evaluating rule extrac- tion methods (see sect. 7) we split the corpus into sections for training, validation, brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1067 table 10 correctness of automatically suggested attributes at the time of annotation, evaluated on all sentences and on those containing a rule precision (%) recall (%) all sentences all rules 78.94 84.44 78.69 79.34 f1 (%) 78.81 81.81 table 11 basic statistics describing the brise-plandok corpus all train valid test documents sentences sen. with segmentation error sen. with attributes rules median no. of rules per document 250 200 7049 5491 215 4238 3994 14 123 3318 3154 13 25 875 74 515 465 18 attributes 9665 7714 1064 median no. of attributes per rule 2 2 2 25 683 18 405 375 16 887 2 and testing, figures for these sections are also included in the table. more compre- hensive statistics about the dataset such as the distribution of attributes, types, and modalities are available online.25 the final dataset contains json entries for each document that retain complete information of the state of each sentence at every stage of the annotation and review process, including the pre-filled labels presented to annotators, labels provided by each annotator for each field, and the output of expert review before the postprocessing phase. comprehensive documentation of all fields in the dataset is available online,26 their availability should enable additional analysis of the complex annotation and review process documented in this section. 5.7 caveats finally we summarize known shortcomings of our rule representation, the anno- tation process, and the final dataset. when developing the rule representation described in sect. 3, we take advantage of the fact that most sentences in the zoning plan contain at most a single rule, which can be represented as a set of attribute- value pairs, with their types (condition, content, etc.) indicating the role of each attribute, and which together with the sentences modality allow us to construct a formal rule from the representation, e.g. using dyadic deontic logic. sentences that contain multiple rules, such as 7719_12_0 auf der mit spk/p bb3 gekennzeichnete grundflche ist die errichtung von oberirdischen bauten untersagt, die errichtung 25 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ stat/ docs 26 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ data. md 1068 g. recski et al. von unterirdischen bauten ist gestattet. the construction of above-ground struc- tures is prohibited in the area marked spk/p bb3, the construction of below-ground structures is permitted., cannot be properly represented using our representation. furthermore, our representation is ambiguous for rules containing multiple attrib- utes of type condition, since these may be interpreted as being either in a con- junctive or disjunctive relation. for example, in the sentence 7199_10_0 flach- dcher bis zu einer dachneigung von fnf grad sind entsprechend dem stand der technischen wissenschaften zu begrnen. flat roofs with a pitch not exceeding 5 degrees must be greened using state of the art technologies. contains the attributes dachart roof type and dachneigungmax maximum roof pitch that describe conditions that must both be met for the content attribute begruenungdach roof to green to apply. but in the sentence entlang der haulerstrae und am frankhplatz sind vorkehrungen fr die erhaltung und pflanzung von mindestens einer baum- reihe zu treffen. along haulerstrae and on frankhplatz, provisions shall be made for the preservation and planting of at least one row of trees. the two verkehrs- flaecheid traffic area id attributes of type condition describe two locations for which the rule holds independently. finally, a small number of rules in the dataset span over multiple sentences, these are also not captured by our representation. 6 patternbased rule extraction in this section we present a rule-based solution to the task of mapping sentences to rule representations, as defined in sect. 3. the semantic parsing system text_ to_4lang (kovcs et al., 2022b; recski, 2018) is used to map sentences of the building regulation documents to graph-based meaning representations, which are then used as input to multiple pattern-based sentence classifiers implemented via the potato library (kovcs et al., 2022a) to extract attributes, and custom python modules in the brise-plandok library for detecting attribute types, values, and rule modalities. an early prototype of this system with limited coverage was presented in (recski et al., 2021), the improved solution described in this section achieves high accuracy across the entire brise-plandok dataset (see sect. 7 for detailed evaluation). as described in sect. 5, components of this system were also used in the corpus annotation process to provide automatic suggestions, significantly reducing the workload of human annotators. 6.1 semantic parsing our rule-based solution for attribute extraction operates over semantic graphs repre- senting the meaning of each input sentence. such graphs are constructed using the text_to_4lang algorithm, originally presented in (recski, 2018) and improved in (kovcs et al., 2022b). this method relies on universal dependency (de marn- effe et al., 2021) parsing for detecting the syntactic structure of sentences (see sect. 4), then maps each dependency parse tree to a directed graph of concepts fol- lowing the 4lang system of meaning representation (kornai, 2010; kornai et al., brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1069 2015). figure 10 shows an example of a 4lang graph, built from the ud parse in fig. 11, representing the sentence flachdcher bis zu einer dachneigung von fnf grad sind entsprechend dem stand der technischen wissenschaften zu begrnen. flat roofs with a pitch not exceeding 5 degrees must be greened using state of the art technologies. 4lang graphs use three types of directed edges to connect words of an utterance. 1- and 2-edges connect binary relations to their arguments, while the 0-edge represents attribution, unary predication, and hypernymy. for a more detailed overview of the 4lang formalism and the text_to_4lang system the reader is referred to (kovcs et al., 2022b). for constructing these graphs we rely on 27 library. the patterns over the text_to_4lang implementation in the tuw-nlp ud parse trees used to construct 4lang graphs are generally language-agnostic, a small number of rules have been added to handle german legal text. these rules directly map the modal auxiliaries drfen may mssen must as well as the adjec- tive zulssig permitted and the verb untersagen forbid to the 4lang nodes per, obl, and for. common words expressing negation (nicht, kein) are mapped to the 4lang node neg. 6.2 attribute extraction the semantic graphs constructed using the text_to_4lang system are used as input to a rule-based system for detecting mentions of attributes. binary classifiers are built for 40 common attributes that together cover over 63% of all attribute men- tions in the brise-plandok dataset. a classifier for a single attribute is a list of graph patterns that are each matched against an input graph. if any pattern associ- ated with an attribute is present in the graph, the attribute is predicted to be present in the input sentence. each pattern is a directed graph, whose node and edge labels may be strings or regular expressions. for example, the graph pattern for the attrib- ute gebudehhemax maximum building height in fig. 12 matches both of the graphs in figs. 13 and 14. pattern-based classification is implemented using the 28 library (kovcs et al., 2022a), the rule systems for each attribute are part potato of the brise-plandok repository. patterns for each rule set have been collected to ensure high precision at the cost of lower recall. the overall precision of the com- plete system of 40 rule sets is above 93%. detailed evaluation of the rule systems on the final dataset is presented in sect. 7. 6.3 rule construction automatic construction of the complete rule representation introduced in sect. 3.1 requires the classification of extracted attributes by type (condition, content, etc.), the extraction of their values from text, and the classification of each sentence by 27 https:// github. com/ recski/ tuw- nlp 28 https:// github. com/ adaam ko/ potato 1070 g. recski et al. fig. 10 4lang semantic representation of the sentence 7199_10_0 flachdcher bis zu einer dachneigung von fnf grad sind entsprechend dem stand der technischen wis- senschaften zu begrnen. flat roofs with a pitch not exceeding 5 degrees must be greened using state of the art technologies fig. 11 universal dependency analysis of the sentence 7199_10_0 flachdcher bis zu einer dach- neigung von fnf grad sind entsprechend dem stand der technischen wissenschaften zu begrnen. flat roofs with a pitch not exceeding 5 degrees must be greened using state of the art technologies modality (obligation, permission, prohibition)29. the task of type detection, i.e. the mapping of each attribute to one of the four classes content, condition, contentexception and conditionexception, is greatly simplified by the fact that many attributes only or mostly occur with a single type. for example, anfluchtlinie on the alignment line is always a condition, and aus- nahmegaertnerischauszugestaltende exception to the ordinance of horticultural design is always a conditionexception. remaining cases are handled by custom patterns using regular expressions, an example is presented in fig. 15. some boolean attributes always have the same value by definition, e.g. anor- dnunggaertnerischeausgestaltung ordinance of horticultural design is always true. other boolean values are detected using regular expressions over the sentence, an example is shown in fig. 16. finally, string and numerical values of attributes are detected using regular expressions with grouping and subpatterns 29 the modality classification task relies on the assumption that each sentence contains at most one rule, see sect. 5.7 for details. brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1071 fig. 12 graph pattern for the attribute gebudehhemax maximum building height.. * is the regular expression for matching any string fig. 13 4lang graph of the sentence 7870e_3_1 die gebudehhe darf hchstens 16.0 m betragen. the building height may not exceed 16.0 m. highlighted nodes indicate the subgraph matching the pat- tern in fig. 12 fig. 14 4lang graph of the sentence 8250_56_0 die gebudehhe darf hchstens +46,0 m ber wn betragen. the building height may not exceed +46.0 m above wn. wn stands for wiener null vienna zero, the reference height for the city of vienna. highlighted nodes indicate the subgraph matching the pattern in fig. 12 that extract substrings from the input sentence, an example is presented in fig. 17. this limits the extraction to a sequence labeling task, rule representations are popu- lated with attribute values as they are present in the input text and without additional 1072 g. recski et al. fig. 15 type patterns for attribute dachneigungmax maximum roof pitch. two patterns define cases of condition, in all other cases we fall back to content fig. 16 value patterns for boolean attribute aufbautenzulaessig superstructure permitted fig. 17 value patterns for attribute gebaeudehoehemaxwn maximum building height wrt to the viennese zero. note that the "number_with_meter" variable is also a regular expression pattern. for this attribute in both cases the value is what is inside the 1st matching group normalization. all patterns used for type and value extraction are available on git hub.30,31 the final step of rule construction is to determine the modality of each sentence (under the assumption that each sentence contains at most one rule, see sect. 5.7 for a discussion), a three-way choice between the categories obligation, permis- sion, and prohibition. since nearly 75% of all sentences describes an obli- gation, we did not implement any classification algorithm during the annotation and review process. after the review was completed, we implemented a simple strat- egy for guessing the modalities of other sentences in the zoning plan based on the 30 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ full_ attri bute_ extra ction/ value/ value_ patte rns. py 31 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ full_ attri bute_ extra ction/ type/ type_ patte rns. py brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1073 list of attributes found in each. for this we compiled two lists of attributes based on the gold standard data, those that most often occur in sentences with permission and prohibition modalities, respectively. the presence of these attributes32 in a sentence will trigger the assignment of the respective modality, all other sentences will be classified as obligation. this strategy achieves an accuracy of over 90% on the annotated dataset (see sect. 7 for details). 7 evaluation in this section we present quantitative evaluation of our rule-based approach to the attribute extraction and rule construction tasks. the attribute extraction method is compared with a range of machine learning baselines, which are described in sect. 7.1. following standard practices we split the brise-plandok dataset into three parts, designated train, valid, and test. the train portion is used to train ml models, valid is used for initial evaluation and optimization of hyper- parameters, test is used for evaluation of our final models (the size of each of these portions is presented in table 11). sentences marked as involving a segmenta- tion error (3% of all sentences, see sect. 5.6) are disregarded during all evaluation. results on the tasks of attribute extraction and end-to-end rule extraction are pre- sented in sects. 7.2 and 7.3, respectively. 7.1 machine learning baselines we train and evaluate multiple supervised ml methods on the attribute extraction task to serve as baselines for comparison with our rule-based approach. besides standard architectures we also include simple interpretable methods such as decision trees and decision lists, to illustrate their potential for learning high-accuracy symbolic models for text classification and to motivate further research on rule learning for informa- tion extraction. all models described below, except for the bert-based method, are trained using bag-of-words features, with each word mapped to its lemma, as gener- ated using our stanza-based nlp pipeline (see sect. 4), and each sentence represented using a countvectorizer,33 with max_features=3000, max_df=0.8 and min_df=0.001, these values were determined empirically using the validation set. logistic regression a logistic regression model is trained using the implementa- tion34 of scikit-learn, with default parameters. decision tree decision tree classifiers are trained using the implementation35 of scikit-learn, with maximum depth set to 5. visualizations of the trees for each class are available in our repository.36 32 for the complete lists of attributes triggering each label, see https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ full_ attri bute_ extra ction/ modal ity/ predi ct_ modal ities. py 33 https:// scikit- learn. org/ stable/ modul es/ gener ated/ sklea rn. featu re_ extra ction. text. count vecto rizer. html 34 https:// scikit- learn. org/ stable/ modul es/ gener ated/ sklea rn. linear_ model. logis ticre gress ion. html 35 https:// scikit- learn. org/ stable/ modul es/ gener ated/ sklea rn. tree. decis iontr eecla ssifi er. html 36 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ tree/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ basel ines/ output/ decis ion_ tree 1074 g. recski et al. greedy rule list using the imodels library we train a greedy rule list classi- fier37 with a maximum depth of 5. this method learns decision lists (rivest, 1987) by greedily splitting the training data based on one feature at a time based on gini value, but unlike decision trees creates only a single path of binary decisions. the learned lists for each attribute are available online.38 one rule the one rule classifier39 (holte, 1993) further restricts a decision list to refer to only a single input feature. combined with our bag-of-words representa- tion, this model will determine a single lemma for each class such that the class label is predicted if and only if that word is present in the sentence. the learned rules for each attribute are available online.40 bert a standard bert-based classifier is trained using the model bert- 41 with default hyperparameters. batch size was set to 64 base-german-cased and maximum token length was reduced to 282 to avoid out-of-memory errors. we used the adamw optimizer42 and a learning rate of 103 . training was performed on a single geforce gtx 1080 ti gpu with 11 gb of ram and ran for 300 epochs, evaluation was performed using the model state after 200 epochs, this was deter- mined by selecting the model with the highest performance on the validation data- set. we also experimented with training separate classifiers for each attribute, but early experiments showed no significant performance gain. 7.2 attribute extraction the quantitative performance of the rule-based attribute extraction system intro- duced in sect. 6 is evaluated on the full brise-plandok dataset and presented in table 12. the machine learning models described in sect. 7.1 are trained and evaluated both on the full set of 93 attributes present in the dataset and on the set of 40 attributes for which rule systems have been built, with the exception of the bert baseline, which was trained on the smaller label set only. overall results on the validation set are presented in tables 13 and 14, results on the test set are in tables 15 and 16. as expected, greedy rule learning approaches perform worse than our manually built rule systems, while more complex ml models perform compara- bly (bert) or better (decision trees, logistic regression). manual inspection of the fully interpretable models such as the lemmas learned by the one rule classifier43 illustrates the inherent simplicity of the attribute extraction task for some frequent labels. for example, the attribute 37 https:// csinva. io/ imode ls/ rule_ list/ greedy_ rule_ list. html 38 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ basel ines/ output/ greedy_ rule_ list/ report. md 39 https:// csinva. io/ imode ls/ rule_ list/ one_r. html 40 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ basel ines/ output/ one_ rule/ report. md 41 https:// huggi ngface. co/ bert- base- german- cased 42 https:// huggi ngface. co/ docs/ trans forme rs/ main_ class es/ optim izer_ sched ules# trans forme rs. adamw 43 https:// github. com/ recski/ brise- pland ok/ blob/ main/ brise_ pland ok/ basel ines/ output/ one_ rule/ report. md brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1075 anordnunggaertnerischeausgestaltung gardening design required is predicted with a precision and recall of .91 and 1.0, respectively, based on the presence of the lemma grtnerisch related to gardening. unlike manually built patterns, how- ever, such rules are prone to modeling the artefacts of the dataset rather than the semantics of attributes. for example, the attribute anfluchtlinie along the alignment line is predicted by the one rule classifier based on the lemma entlang along, achieving .91 precision and .81 recall, comparable to the performance of the 2  .+linie. while the quantitative perfor- manually built 4lang pattern (an|entlang) mance of both systems remains below those of the machine learning architectures considered to be the state of the art in text classification, such interpretable models are often preferred in real-world applications due to their transparency and predict- ability. detailed qualitative comparison of such models, including an analysis of the tradeoff between performance and interpretability, shall be presented in a forthcom- ing publication. the detection of attribute types and the extraction of attribute values are evalu- ated on all gold attributes of the full brise-plandok dataset in table 17. the attrib- ute-based modality prediction is also evaluated on the full dataset and compared to the baseline strategy of always choosing the most common modality obligation, these figures are shown in table 18. note that these rule-based systems were built manually based on insights from the full annotated dataset, therefore their ability to generalize across all documents of the zoning plan cannot be evaluated and their performance on unseen data may be lower. 7.3 rule extraction finally, we evaluate the overall accuracy of rule construction on gold standard attributes, i.e. the ratio of sentences for which all attribute types and values as well as the rule modality was correctly detected. table 19 presents these figures in three settings. the gold attrs setup uses ground truth attribute sets and only evaluates the automatic prediction of attribute values, types, and sentence modalities. under these conditions two-thirds of all generated rules are fully correct. the pred attrs (40) setup uses attributes extracted by our rule-based system, but discards attributes not among the 40 covered by the rules. this setup results in 55% fully correct rules, with attribute extraction being the dominant source of errors. finally, pred attrs (all) is end-to-end evaluation on all attributes. the ratio of errors caused by imperfect attribute extraction is nearly double of the previous setup, since sentences contain- ing any of the 59 attributes not covered by our rule-based system all belong to this error class. the ratio of fully correct rules is thereby reduced to 46%. on the one hand, these figures confirm our initial impression that attribute extrac- tion is the main bottleneck of the rule extraction task, and additional patterns that cover more than just the 40 most frequent attributes would greatly increase the accu- racy of an end-to-end rule-based system for mapping sentences to formal rules. on the other hand, for higher overall accuracy the tasks of value extraction and modality classification shall also require more sophisticated approaches than the rudimentary baselines presented here. as part of the brise project the system presented here is 1076 g. recski et al. table 12 performance of the rule-based system on the full brise-plandok dataset. overall (micro-aver- age) figures are calculated both for the full set of attributes (93 classes) and for the 40 classes for which rules are provided. attributes are listed in order of frequency in the dataset (gold), the pred column shows the number of attributes predicted by the rule-based system gold pred precision recall f1 overall (40 classes) overall (93 classes) planzeichen widmung anordnunggaertnerischeausgestaltung dachart anfluchtlinie vorkehrungbepflanzung gebaeudehoeheart begruenungdach abschlussdachmaxbezuggebaeude widmunginmehrerenebenen bballgemein gehsteigbreitemin gebaeudehoehemaxabsolut gebaeudebautyp nutzungsart unterbrechunggeschlossenebauweise aufbautenzulaessig vonbebauungfreizuhalten dachneigungmax durchgangbreite bebauteflaechemaxprozentual ausnahmegaertnerischauszugestaltende bauweiseid durchganghoehe volumenundumbaubarerraum stockwerk dachflaechemin bebauteflaechemax verbotfensterzuoeffentlichenverkehrsflaechen bebauteflaechemaxnebengebaeude verbotwohnung anoeffentlichenverkehrsflaechen oeffentlicheverkehrsflaechebreitemin anordnunggaertnerischeausgestaltungprozentual bebauteflaechemin anteildachbegruenung gebaeudehoehemaxwn fbokminimumwohnungen 7383 9665 1844 6595 6595 1855 641 292 282 276 274 242 220 219 219 217 207 200 175 157 154 152 144 132 109 107 103 97 96 91 80 71 69 67 65 61 54 51 50 48 36 32 20 745 273 266 261 222 210 211 191 107 228 168 164 167 117 154 132 58 45 94 84 55 56 90 54 63 48 57 57 71 50 25 27 35 55 24 29 24 93.13 93.13 94.82 80.40 97.44 99.25 96.17 100.00 94.29 96.68 98.43 82.24 87.28 100.00 87.20 95.81 79.49 100.00 98.48 86.21 100.00 100.00 95.24 100.00 98.21 93.33 100.00 93.65 100.00 98.25 100.00 81.69 100.00 100.00 100.00 94.29 76.36 91.67 82.76 70.83 83.19 63.55 95.39 93.45 91.10 93.62 90.94 81.02 81.82 92.73 85.84 40.18 91.71 81.16 71.50 91.43 59.24 87.88 75.55 95.11 86.44 94.16 96.35 93.48 89.52 87.61 94.66 91.71 53.99 89.44 89.60 78.57 93.57 67.88 100.00 100.00 85.53 34.72 34.09 86.24 74.77 53.40 56.70 87.50 59.34 73.75 67.61 81.16 85.07 89.23 81.97 46.30 52.94 66.00 87.50 61.11 75.00 85.00 91.55 49.50 50.85 92.61 83.77 69.62 71.90 90.32 74.48 82.52 80.67 88.89 91.94 85.29 90.09 63.29 69.23 77.65 81.55 73.33 78.69 77.27 brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1077 table 12 (continued) stellplatzregulativumfangminimumrelativ stellplatzregulativumfangmaximumrelativ 18 11 19 4 94.74 75.00 100.00 27.27 97.30 40.00 gold pred precision recall f1 table 13 performance of ml baselines trained on all 93 classes, evaluated on the validation set (valid) macro-avg micro-avg p r f1 p r f1 logistic regression decision tree greedy rule list one rule 90.02 90.85 86.13 85.93 71.29 78.56 61.94 51.02 73.67 80.94 59.22 54.13 93.25 92.77 85.68 87.89 83.95 82.81 72.74 59.26 88.36 87.51 78.69 70.79 table 14 performance of ml baselines trained on the 40 classes handled by the rule- based system, evaluated on the validation set (valid) macro-avg micro-avg p r f1 p r f1 logistic regression 93.07 84.02 86.40 94.90 88.89 91.80 decision tree 93.56 85.55 87.72 93.39 86.14 89.62 bert 89.61 74.08 78.51 90.42 80.05 84.92 greedy rule list 83.54 62.52 59.27 86.89 74.43 80.18 one rule rules 81.22 52.21 55.62 88.10 61.05 72.12 92.45 71.30 76.23 92.48 80.76 86.22 table 15 performance of ml baselines trained on all 93 classes, evaluated on the test set macro-avg micro-avg p r f1 p r f1 logistic regression 91.59 76.01 77.10 93.91 86.20 89.89 decision tree 89.59 82.45 82.59 92.68 83.69 87.96 greedy rule list 84.09 61.57 58.48 84.77 72.98 78.43 one rule 84.46 51.46 53.50 87.38 62.37 72.79 intended to serve as a source of automated suggestions for city officials who shall continue to make final judgements on the compliance of building plan submissions. fully automating not only the extraction but also the enforcement of regulations would require high accuracy rule-based solutions for all steps of the rule extraction pipeline. beyond the scope of the current project we would also consider using such a tool for making recommendations to a human expert performing the formalization 1078 g. recski et al. table 16 performance of ml baselines trained on the 40 classes handled by the rule- based system, evaluated on the test set macro-avg micro-avg p r f1 p r f1 logistic regression 93.84 76.37 79.99 95.26 88.75 91.89 decision tree 92.38 85.31 86.45 93.97 86.61 90.14 bert 90.87 73.77 77.03 91.12 83.33 87.05 greedy rule list 85.72 57.67 58.67 88.36 74.64 80.93 one rule rules 84.66 49.98 53.56 90.18 65.38 75.81 93.97 74.14 78.19 93.54 82.48 87.66 table 17 performance of type classification and value extraction, evaluated on all gold attributes of the full dataset gold predicted precision recall f1 type classification 9673 value extraction 9673 9163 8679 96.34 90.00 91.26 80.75 93.74 85.12 table 18 performance of attribute-based modality prediction on the full dataset, compared to the baseline of always choosing the most common modality always obligation attribute-based p r f1 p r f1 overall obligation permission prohibition 74.69 74.69 n/a n/a 74.69 100.00 0.00 0.00 74.69 85.51 0.00 0.00 90.64 93.50 83.56 74.43 88.03 95.51 75.61 53.12 89.32 94.49 79.38 61.99 overall figures are micro-averages over the three classes table 19 sentence-level evaluation of rule construction from gold attributes and of end-to-end rule extraction gold attrs pred attrs (40) pred attrs (all) #sens ratio (%) #sens ratio (%) #sens ratio (%) wrong attribute set correct attr. set, wrong values 1219 correct attrs, wrong types only modality is wrong fully correct rule 152 943 4520 17.84 2.22 13.80 66.14 1352 619 66 1016 3781 19.78 9.06 0.97 14.87 55.33 2686 39.30 409 42 530 5.98 0.61 7.76 3167 46.34 of regulations, a process that would be similar to the annotation process described in this paper. in such a setting the current performance of our pipeline corresponds to making fully correct rule suggestions for nearly half of all sentences (cf. table 19) and correctly predicting nearly two-thirds of all relevant attributes (cf. table 12). brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1079 8 conclusion this paper documented the process of building the brise-plandok corpus of ger- man building regulations annotated with formal rule representations. a custom rule representation and corresponding annotation guidelines were developed and used for an iterative corpus construction process combining non-expert annotation and expert review, creating a gold standard dataset of more than 7000 sentences. the annotation process was supported by a rule-based information extraction system using a combination of semantic parsing and pattern matching. this system was also evaluated on the final dataset together with a set of machine learning baselines of varying degrees of interpretability, illustrating the potential of simple and transpar- ent models for information extraction from technical text. all software tools devel- oped for supporting the annotation, review, and evaluation processes documented in the paper are released on github under an mit license together wih the final brise-plandok dataset. acknowledgements work supported by brise-vienna (uia04-081), a european union urban innova- tive actions project. we thank judit cs for advising us on the bert-based baselines, and the experts of the city of vienna building authority (ma 37 baupolizei) for their assistance in developing the annota- tion guidelines. author contributions design of rule representation, development of annotation guidelines: g.r. and b.l. data preprocessing: g.r. annotation tools: .k. and e.i. annotation organization: g.r. and e.i. review of annotations: e.i. data postprocessing: e.i. statistics: e.i. rule-based extraction method and implemen- tation: g.r., .k., e.i. machine learning baselines: e.i. evaluation: g.r. and e.i. project coordination: g.r. writing the paper: g.r. principal investigator: a.h. funding open access funding provided by tu wien (tuw). declarations conflict of interest the authors declare no competing interests. open access this article is licensed under a creative commons attribution 4.0 international license, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the creative commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. the images or other third party material in this article are included in the articles creative commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. if material is not included in the articles creative commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permis- sion directly from the copyright holder. to view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/ licenses/by/4.0/. references ahn, k., bos, j., kor, d., nissim, m., webber, b. l., & curran, j. r. (2005). question answering with qed at trec 2005. in e. m. voorhees & l. p. buckland (eds.) proceedings of the fourteenth text retrieval conference (trec 2005) (vol. 500266). national institute of standards and technology (nist). http:// trec. nist. gov/ pubs/ trec14/ papers/ uedin burgh- nissim. qa. pdf aires, j. p., pinheiro, d., lima, v. s. d., & meneguzzi, f. (2017). norm conflict identification in con- tracts. artificial intelligence and law, 25(4), 397428. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10506- 017- 9205-x 1080 g. recski et al. al-kofahi, k., tyrrell, a., vachher, a., & jackson, p. (2001). a machine learning approach to prior case retrieval. in proceedings of the 8th international conference on artificial intelligence and law (pp. 8893). new york, ny, usa: association for computing machinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 383535. 383545 athan, t., boley, h., governatori, g., palmirani, m., paschke, a., & wyner, a. (2013). oasis legal- ruleml. in proceedings of the fourteenth international conference on artificial intelligence and law (pp. 312). new york, ny, usa: association for computing machinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 25146 01. 25146 03 beach, t., rezgui, y., li, h., & kasim, t. (2015). a rule-based semantic approach for automated regula- tory compliance in the construction sector. expert systems with applications, 42(12), 52195231. branting, l. k., yeh, a., weiss, b., merkhofer, e., & brown, b. (2018). inducing predictive models for decision support in administrative adjudication. in u. pagallo, m. palmirani, p. casanovas, g. sar- tor, & s. villata (eds.), ai approaches to the complexity of legal systems (pp. 465477). springer. curran, j., clark, s., & bos, j. (2007). linguistically motivated large-scale nlp with c &c and boxer. in proceedings of the 45th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics (pp. 3336). prague, czech republic: association for computational linguistics. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ p07- 2009 curtotti, m., & mccreath, e. c. (2011). a corpus of australian contract language: description, profiling and analysis. in proceedings of the 13th international conference on artificial intelligence and law (pp. 199208). new york, ny, usa: association for computing machinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 20183 58. 20183 87 de marneffe, m. c., manning, c. d., nivre, j., & zeman, d. (2021). universal dependencies. computa- tional linguistics, 47(2), 255308. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1162/ coli\_a_ 00402 dimyadi, j., fernando, s., davies, k., & amor, r. (2020). computerising the new zealand building code for automated compliance audit. in 6th new zealand built environment research symposium (nzbers 2020) (pp. 3946). https:// hdl. handle. net/ 10652/ 4919 dragoni, m., villata, s., rizzi, w., &governatori, g. (2016). combining nlp approaches for rule extrac- tion from legal documents. in 1st workshop on mining and reasoning with legal texts (mirel 2016). fuchs, s., witbrock, m., dimyadi, j., & amor, r. (2022). neural semantic parsing of building regula- tions for compliance checking. iop conference series: earth and environmental science, 1101(9), 092022. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1088/ 1755- 1315/ 1101/9/ 092022 glaser, i., moser, s., & matthes, f. (2021). summarization of german court rulings. in proceedings of the natural legal language processing workshop 2021 (pp. 180189). punta cana, dominican republic: association for computational linguistics. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ 2021. nllp-1. 19 governatori, g. (2005). representing business contracts in ruleml. international journal of coopera- tive information systems, 14(02n03), 181216. governatori, g. (2018). practical normative reasoning with defeasible deontic logic. in c. damato & m. theobald (eds.), reasoning web. learning, uncertainty, streaming, and scalability: 14th interna- tional summer school (pp. 125). springer. isbn 978-3-030-00338-8_1 guo, d., onstein, e., & rosa, a. d. l. (2021). a semantic approach for automated rule compliance checking in construction industry. ieee access, 9, 129648129660. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ access. 2021. 31082 26 holte, r. c. (1993). very simple classification rules perform well on most commonly used datasets. machine learning, 11(1), 6390. kalamkar, p., tiwari, a., agarwal, a., karn, s., gupta, s., raghavan, v., & modi, a. (2022). corpus for automatic structuring of legal documents. marseille, france: european language resources asso- ciation. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ 2022. lrec-1. 470 kanapala, a., pal, s., & pamula, r. (2019). text summarization from legal documents: a survey. artifi- cial intelligence review, 51(3), 371402. karmarkar, n., & karp, r. m. (1982). the differencing method of set partitioning. computer science division (eecs), university of california berkeley. kipper, k., korhonen, a., ryant, n., & palmer, m. (2008). a large-scale classification of english verbs. language resources and evaluation, 42(1), 2140. kornai, a. (2010). the algebra of lexical semantics. in c. ebert, g. jger, & j. michaelis (eds.), pro- ceedings of the 11th mathematics of language workshop (pp. 174199). springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 642- 14322-9 brise-plandok: a german legal corpus of building regulations 1081 kornai, a., cs, j., makrai, m., nemeskey, d. m., pajkossy, k., & recski, g. (2015). competence in lexical semantics. in proceedings of the fourth joint conference on lexical and computational semantics (pp. 165175). denver, colorado: association for computational linguistics. https:// www. aclweb. org/ antho logy/ s15- 1019 kovcs, a., gmes, k., ikldi, e., & recski, g. (2022a). potato: explainable information extrac- tion framework. in proceedings of the 31st acm international conference on information and knowledge management (pp. 48974901). new york, ny, usa: association for computing machinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 35118 08. 35571 96 kovcs, ., gmes, k., kornai, a., & recski, g. (2022b). explainable lexical entailment with semantic graphs. natural language engineering. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1017/ s1351 32492 20000 92 kruiper, r., konstas, i., gray, a. j., sadeghineko, f., watson, r., & kumar, b. (2021). spar.txt, a cheap shallow parsing approach for regulatory texts. in proceedings of the natural legal language pro- cessing workshop 2021 (pp. 129143). punta cana, dominican republic: association for computa- tional linguistics. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ 2021. nllp-1. 14 lee, h., lee, j. k., park, s., & kim, i. (2016). translating building legislation into a computer-executable format for evaluating building permit requirements. automation in construction, 71, 4961. malsane, s., matthews, j., lockley, s., love, p. e., & greenwood, d. (2015). development of an object model for automated compliance checking. automation in construction, 49, 5158. martin, a. d., quinn, k. m., ruger, t. w., & kim, p. t. (2004). competing approaches to predicting supreme court decision making. perspectives on politics, 2(4), 761767. miller, g. a. (1995). wordnet: a lexical database for english. communications of the acm, 38(11), 3941. moens, m. f., uyttendaele, c., & dumortier, j. (1999). abstracting of legal cases: the potential of clus- tering based on the selection of representative objects. journal of the american society for informa- tion science, 50(2), 151161. parent, x., & van der torre, l. (2013). input/output logic. in d. gabbay, j. horty, x. parent, r. van der meyden, & l. van der torre (eds.), handbook of deontic logic and normative systems (pp. 495 544). college publications. recski, g. (2018). building concept definitions from explanatory dictionaries. international journal of lexicography, 31, 274311. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1093/ ijl/ ecx007 recski, g., lellmann, b., kovcs, ., & hanbury, a. (2021). explainable rule extraction via semantic graphs. in proceedings of the fifth workshop on automated semantic analysis of information in legal text (asail 2021) (pp. 2435). so paulo, brazil: ceur workshop proceedings. http:// ceur- ws. org/ vol- 2888/ paper3. pdf rivest, r. l. (1987). learning decision lists. machine learning, 2(3), 229246. saravanan, m., ravindran, b., & raman, s. (2008). automatic identification of rhetorical roles using conditional random fields for legal document summarization. in proceedings of the third interna- tional joint conference on natural language processing. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ i08- 1063 shao, y., mao, j., liu, y., ma, w., satoh, k., zhang, m., & ma, s. (2020). bert-pli: modeling para- graph-level interactions for legal case retrieval. in c. bessiere (ed.), proceedings of the twenty- ninth international joint conference on artificial intelligence, ijcai-20 (pp. 35013507). interna- tional joint conferences on artificial intelligence organization. https:// doi. org/ 10. 24963/ ijcai. 2020/ 484 strickson, b., & de la iglesia, b. (2020). legal judgement prediction for uk courts. in proceedings of the 2020 the 3rd international conference on information science and system (pp. 204209). new york, ny, usa: association for computing machinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 33881 76. 33881 83 tuggener, d., von dniken, p., peetz, t., & cieliebak, m. (2020). ledgar: a large-scale multi-label corpus for text classification of legal provisions in contracts. in proceedings of the twelfth lan- guage resources and evaluation conference (pp. 12351241). marseille, france: european lan- guage resources association. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ 2020. lrec-1. 155 vaswani, a., shazeer, n., parmar, n., uszkoreit, j., jones, l., gomez, a.n. & polosukhin, i. (2017). attention is all you need. in i. guyon et al. (eds.) advances in neural information processing sys- tems 30 (pp. 59986008). long beach, ca, usa: curran associates, inc. http:// papers. nips. cc/ paper/ 7181- atten tion- is- all- you- need. pdf waltl, b., bonczek, g., scepankova, e., & matthes, f. (2019). semantic types of legal norms in ger- man laws: classification and analysis using local linear explanations. artificial intelligence and law, 27(1), 4371. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10506- 018- 9228-y 1082 g. recski et al. wrzalik, m., & krechel, d. (2021). gerdalir: a german dataset for legal information retrieval. in pro- ceedings of the natural legal language processing workshop 2021 (pp. 123128). punta cana, dominican republic: association for computational linguistics. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ 2021. nllp-1. 13 wu, z., & palmer, m. (1994). verb semantics and lexical selection. in 32nd annual meeting of the asso- ciation for computational linguistics (pp. 133138). las cruces, new mexico, usa: association for computational linguistics. https:// aclan tholo gy. org/ p94- 1019 wyner, a., & peters, w. (2011). on rule extraction from regulations. in legal knowledge and informa- tion systems (pp. 113122). ios press. xue, x., & zhang, j. (2022). regulatory information transformation ruleset expansion to support auto- mated building code compliance checking. automation in construction, 138, 104230. zhang, j., & el-gohary, n. m. (2015). automated information transformation for automated regulatory compliance checking in construction. journal of computing in civil engineering, 29(4), b4015001. zhang, j., & el-gohary, n. m. (2017). integrating semantic nlp and logic reasoning into a unified sys- tem for fully-automated code checking. automation in construction, 73, 4557. publishers note springer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page12_img1.jpeg
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img1.jpeg
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img2.jpeg
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img3.jpeg
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img4.jpeg
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page28_img1.png
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page29_img1.png
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page29_img2.png
BRISE plandok a German legal corpus of building regulations_page29_img3.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img1.jpeg --- class1 nd sentence kategorie merkmal 81418.0 bestimmungen ohne bezeichnung des geltungsbereichs mit dem planzeichen bb llagegelaendeplanzeichen planzeichen der hchste punkt der zur errichtung gelangenden dacher darf die ausgefiihrte 814190 gebaudehdhe um hdchstens 4,5 miberragen. idach abschlussdachmaxbezuggebaeude --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img2.jpeg --- sentence review sentence kategodte merkenal count given by review kategarte meekonat count given by review aia 80 ws esurmmungen obe bezechnnng des gekungshereihs macdem plaazewhen wb flage gelaende,planzechen plansekten ror tage. cetaende ptaneiches planaekben te ber hochace punks dee aue exrivbrung geangenden dachor dur die abagefabres a nn 9141.9.0 gebsudehohe um hochatens 8.5 m uterragen, pach abscbtussdachmaxbezugcebaeude 202s moshe gebacudehocheart wy --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img3.jpeg --- sentence1d sentence modality kategorie merkmal value type entlang der fluchtlinien sind gehsteige mit jeweils mindestens 2,0 m breite b1417.0 herzustellen. lage gelaende planzeichen anfluehttinie true condition 3141.8.0 bestimmungen ohne bezeichnung des gelrungsbereichs mit dem planzeichen bb rermsior lage. gelaende planzeichen planzeichen be condition der hachste punkt der zur errichtung getangenden dacher darf die ausgefdhrte 8141.90 gebaudehdhe um hochstens 4,5 m sberragen. pohitition dach abschlussdachmaxbezuggebacude 4,5 m die zur errichtung gelangenden dacher von gebauden mit einer bebauten flache von mehr als 12 m sind bis zu einer dachneigung von 15 entsprechend dem stand der b14110.0 technik 2u begeinen. dach begruenungdach true content mit ausnahme der als gemischtes baugebietbetriebsbaugebiet gewidmeten flachen darf die mit nebengebauden bebaute grundflache hochstens 30 m je bauplatz 3141.11.0 betragen. iflaeche flaechen hchstens 30m content --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page15_img4.jpeg --- ence modsity categorie rhea - flue te sentence 10 review sent at a modsity kacegoriet merkimal 1 vauest ot rs, entlang der fluchinien sind gehsteige it jewels mindestens 20 m brite 170 a herzustellen, frateecr poses age. gelnente pnzeichen aafluchtave tee cendtioncondon conten aio becrimamagen choe rezestinung des gelmngshereiths adem planzewhen bb. asthe gaan lage, gelaende,plenzekhen plamzekhen 68 cenditon candiioncandition luce hoehste punks der zur erschnang glangenden dachor dae di ansgelnere gat 90 gelhuudetohe um rrhstens 4.5m ubereagen fmm erent loach abschlesdacrmanberugcabseude 45.1 emery ewer die ue eroehrung geungenden dacher von gebauden mt emer bebzuten flache on. chr als 12 ne sindbis zu vince darhneigung von 15 entspeechond dem stand der erai19.0 teetink za hegre joti eens dach egruenungdach eve content cont centeot mir tobi doe a gemishres bugler betexhshangeblet geenlnrten fen arf de at nebongehiaiden pebatie gralla hex hscen ad ye harps, gigi11.0 hwtragea lontenen peseusear iflaeche paechen, echstens 20 en eprammt eontent content --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page28_img1.png --- 1 2 0 1 2 1 2 0 0 0 p --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page29_img1.png --- gebaudehdhe l betragen 2 co --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page29_img2.png --- gebaudehhe 1 betragen 0 2 oo --- text from brise plandok a german legal corpus of building regulations_page29_img3.jpeg --- gebaudehhe 2 1 1 betragen 0 2 2 we
