==== TEXT ====
advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 contents lists available at sciencedirect advanced engineering informatics journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/aei automated fire risk assessment and mitigation in building blueprints using computer vision and deep generative models dayou chen a, long chen a,, yu zhang a, shan lin b, mao ye c, simon slvsten d a school of architecture, building and civil engineering, loughborough university, united kingdom b guangzhou metro design & research institute co. ltd., 510010, guangzhou, china c wuhan zhongyuan electronic group co., ltd., china d european center for risk & resilience studies, university of southern denmark, denmark a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t keywords: fire risk management automated compliance checking deep generative models blueprint analysis floorplan generation building fire risks pose significant threats to individual safety and bear substantial economic consequences. consequently, developing effective automated fire risk assessment and mitigation solutions has become increasingly crucial to mitigate fire risks and reduce losses. previous automated fire risk assessment approaches have predominantly relied on structured building design information, such as industry foundation classes (ifc)-based building information modelling (bim) models, which limited their applicability in scenarios without such data. additionally, there is a notable absence of a comprehensive approach in existing research for effectively mitigating fire risks identified during the assessment process. this study aims to bridge these gaps by proposing an innovative approach for assessing and mitigating fire risks using raw building blueprints. this approach incorporates advanced computer vision techniques to process both paper-based and digital blueprints. it then employs a knowledge-based algorithm for evaluating fire safety and regulatory compliance within these blueprints. a key innovation is the development of a deep generative model that redesigns unqualified blueprint designs to meet safety standards. this research contributes to the field by providing a more capable, accessible, and flexible approach for automated building safety, introducing artificial intelligence (ai)-enabled solutions for risk mitigation. it offers a versatile option applicable to various building types, significantly enhancing fire safety and compliance, especially for buildings without extensive bim data. this study addresses the limitations of current methodologies and lays the groundwork for future advancements in automated fire risk assessment and mitigation. 1. introduction the devastating impact of building fires remains a consistent issue in societies, threatening both lives and property across urban and rural areas. the national fire protection association reported that in 2021, fires in the united states resulted in a staggering $15.9 billion in property damage [1], highlighting the immense economic toll. besides financial losses, the tragic grenfell tower fire in 2017 exemplifies the dire threat to human lives [2], underscoring the profound need for effective fire risk identification and reduction measures. considerable endeavours have been undertaken to evaluate and address fire risks in buildings. according to iso 31000:2009, fire risk assessment includes three main stages: risk identification, risk analysis and risk evaluation [3]. the dow corning company proposed the first modern fire risk assessment method in the us in the 1970s, in which they applied the fire and explosion index assessment method to conduct a systematic fire risk assessment of fire risk for enterprises [4]. after- wards, various similar solutions subsequently released, including the gretener method by m. gretener from switzerland [5], and firecam by the national research council of canada (nrc) [6], have set the foundation for evaluating fire risks. however, these manual processes are prone to errors, time-consuming, and costly [7], creating a demand for more efficient, automated solutions. in recent efforts to automate fire risk assessment, malsane et al. [8] developed a semantically rich object model for automating building code compliance checks, particularly focusing on fire safety in resi- dential houses using industry foundation classes (ifc)-based building information modelling (bim) data. jiang et al. [9] proposed a multi- ontology fusion methodology integrating ontologies with rule-based reasoning for automated code compliance. this approach combines a code ontology with a model ontology using a grey-box technique  corresponding author. e-mail address: l.chen3@lboro.ac.uk (l. chen). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2024.102614 received 27 february 2024; received in revised form 25 april 2024; accepted 24 may 2024 available online 5 june 2024 1474-0346/ 2024 elsevier ltd. all rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, ai training, and similar technologies. d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 to streamline the checking process. additionally, fitkau and hart- mann [10] introduced a detailed ontology model for automatic compli- ance checking of structural fire safety requirements using existing bim models. these approaches, however, often require structured building design information, such as ifc-based bim models, limiting their ap- plication in many scenarios without such data. another notable gap in current automated fire risk assessment research is the absence of a comprehensive methodical approach for mitigating the fire risks identified. in the field of automated fire risk mitigation, significant focus has been on post-event hazard detection and evacuation strategy develop- ment. cheng et al. [11] developed a graph-based network to evaluate the shortest evacuation routes in a building using live cctv (closed- circuit television) camera footage. meanwhile, li et al. [12] developed a dynamic intelligent evacuation model that considers fire propagation to determine the most effective evacuation strategy in the event of a fire in a building. however, few proactive studies that incorporate mitigation strategies into automated fire risk assessments to improve fire safety. fire safety design is increasingly recognised as a critical method for fire risk prevention and mitigation. maluk et al. [13] explored the potential benefits of incorporating fire safety into the building design process, as it is often viewed as an additional constraint rather than a design parameter in current design practice. mazzucchelli et al. [14] proposed performance-based fire safety design that allows for cus- tomised design based on specific project requirements. sabbaghzadeh et al. [15] developed a framework to obtain appropriate fire safety measures while considering their effects on safe evacuation and budget limits, which can help decrease fatalities during fires. a key factor for both fire risk assessment and fire safety design is the consideration of evacuation distance. this consideration is key to minimising response time and enhancing safety, as rapid evacuation is critically important in hazardous situations. intuitively, shorter routes ensure swifter and safer evacuations [16]. such distances are regulated worldwide, for consistency, this research refers such a distance as the maximum travel distance (mtd). for instance, in public buildings in china, a minimum distance of 25 metres is stipulated for care facilities [17]. the german federal institute for occupational safety and health (baua) [18] mandates that primary escape routes should not exceed 35 metres. the uk offers more nuanced specifications based on the type and conditions of dwellings and flats [19]. accurately determining mtd from building blueprints is essential for assessing fire risks and is a key focus of this research. this research aims to pioneer an innovative approach based on artificial intelligence (ai) techniques for assessing and proactively mitigating fire risks utilising raw building blueprints. this approach will not only assess fire risks but also integrate mitigation strategies from the initial steps, using mtd as a crucial parameter for fire safety design. this methodology encompasses three pivotal steps:  automated polymorphic building blueprints standardisation and interpretation, which will standardise both paper-based and digi- tal building blueprints and automatically interpret the blueprints using computer vision.  automated building fire risk assessment, which will assess build- ing fire risks and ensure compliance with established fire regula- tions.  ai-enabled building fire risk mitigation, which will integrate ai and deep generative models to mitigate identified fire risks. the research scope is centred on applying these methodologies to building layout design blueprints. this design data representation is less structured but more widely available compared to detailed bim models. this focus addresses a critical gap in automatic fire risk evaluation for many buildings without bim data, enhancing the accessibility and flexibility of fire risk assessments and mitigations. the procedure is initiated by pre-processing to standardise both paper-based and digital building blueprints. this initial step is crucial as it allows the application of advanced ai techniques to a broader range of building types, many of which may only have blueprint design documentation available. this is followed by a comprehensive interpre- tation of building blueprints. this interpretation involves segmenting rooms, obtaining room-specific information, extracting fire resistance levels, and vectorising room layouts. subsequently, the interconnec- tivity of each spatial segment is analysed for fire risk assessment, such as determining the mtd, followed by ascertaining compliance with fire safety regulations. it is important to note that while the automated assessment is rigorous, it is specifically designed to focus on the geometric and topological aspects of design, particularly the mtd criterion, as stipulated in the uk building regulations. suppose specific building designs are found non-compliant with fire safety norms. in that case, their layout undergoes redesign and modification using ai, specifically, a connectivity graph guided deep generative model, until they satisfy fire risk evaluation standards. this approach provides a proactively effective tool for designers and engineers to enhance the fire safety of building layouts based on building blueprints, at the design and retrofitting phases. this rest of this paper is structured as follows: section 2 presents a comprehensive literature review, laying the foundation for under- standing the current state of ai in building blueprint interpretation, design and risk compliance. section 3 elucidates the conceptual basis and the detailed methodologies of each pivotal step of the proposed approach. section 4 elaborates a close implementation of the proposed approach, forming a case study. section 5 thoroughly discuss the approachs capabilities and its comparison with existing studies. the paper concludes with a summary of findings and prospects for future research in section 6. 2. literature review this review begins by exploring the current methodologies and tech- nologies utilised in the automated interpretation of building blueprints, emphasising the application of computer vision techniques for analysing blueprints. this is followed by examining existing approaches to auto- mated building fire risk assessment and compliance checking, mainly focusing on previous methods of automated compliance related to fire safety. finally, attention is turned towards using ai in building layout design, highlighting the potential of deep generative ai models for fire risk mitigation strategies. 2.1. automated interpretation of building blueprints in the domains of architecture, engineering, and construction (aec), as well as in the realm of facility management and property management, building blueprints serve as the bedrock of informa- tion, dictating design, construction, and maintenance processes. the transition from traditional paper-based blueprints to digital formats, primarily driven by advancements in computer-aided design (cad), represents a pivotal shift in how this information is accessed, analysed, and utilised. however, this transition is not uniform across industries, regions and countries. a significant portion of existing buildings, par- ticularly those constructed before the digital era, continue to rely on blueprints in less accessible formats, such as physical paper copies or non-interactive pdf files. this disparity presents a unique challenge to uniformly interpret and utilise building blueprints of varying formats for critical tasks in fire risk assessment and compliance checking. the interpretation of building blueprints plays a crucial role in this process, as it allows for the identification of potential hazards, the layout of evacuation routes, the location of fire safety facilities, and the overall compliance with building codes and safety standards. given the diversity of blueprint formats, from physical paper copies to cad files, the task of interpreting them for risk assessment becomes 2 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 complex. traditional methods, which often rely on manual interpre- tation by experts, are time-consuming, subject to human error, and not scalable to the vast number of buildings that must be assessed regularly. this is where the field of automated blueprint interpretation, employing techniques from machine learning, ai, computer vision, and optical character recognition (ocr), presents a promising solu- tion. for thorough fire risk analysis and evaluation based on building blueprints, careful interpretation and analysis of these blueprints in var- ious formats are crucial. this involves identifying potential fire hazards and devising appropriate safety measures by processing the extracted information to achieve key objectives: identifying the building layout, locating key passive and active protections, and understanding building design and construction [20]. by automating the interpretation of blueprints, these technologies aim to bring efficiency, accuracy, and consistency to the process, making fire risk assessment more reliable and accessible. 2.1.1. cad conversion/digitalisation the digitalisation of building blueprints, transitioning from tradi- tional physical formats to versatile, machine-readable cad formats, was not just a technical evolution but a paradigm shift in architec- tural data management. this transition is pivotal for enabling auto- mated processing, interpretation, and analysis of building blueprints, which are foundational for effective fire risk assessment and compli- ance checking. the challenge here is multifaceted, involving not only the conversion of diverse blueprint formats but also the preservation and interpretation of intricate details and metadata crucial for fire safety analysis. early efforts in cad conversion and digitalisation focused on digitis- ing paper-based and hand-drawn architectural plans. llads et al. [21] developed a system for processing hand-drawn architectural drawings within a cad framework, focusing on identifying building elements and their spatial relationships using attributed graphs. in a similar vein, dori and liu [22] worked on converting mechanical engineering draw- ings from scans to 3d reconstructions, concentrating on the structural and algorithmic aspects. these works paved the way for a compre- hensive understanding and reconstruction of complex engineering and architectural drawings. recent advancements have further refined these concepts. hender- son and swaminatha [23] introduced a structural modelling approach combined with a non-deterministic agent system for interpreting cad drawings, emphasising the importance of understanding the seman- tics behind engineering drawings, beyond just capturing geometric data. tang et al. [24] developed a system specifically for analysing and labelling structural scenes in cad format, employing advanced strategies for detecting and recognising various components in floor- plan drawings. these developments demonstrate significant progress in the capability to digitalise and interpret complex architectural plans effectively. the advancements in cad conversion and digitalisation have pro- found implications for fire risk assessment and compliance checking. the ability to convert and interpret diverse blueprint formats into a standardised digital format is crucial for accurately identifying poten- tial fire hazards, planning effective evacuation routes, and ensuring comprehensive compliance with fire safety standards. 2.1.2. room classification classifying rooms within a building blueprint is paramount for interpreting blueprints and automated fire risk assessment. the clas- sification determines not only the usage and function of each space but also informs the specific fire safety standards and requirements that apply. this aspect of blueprint interpretation is especially challenging due to the diverse nature of room types and the subtleties involved in distinguishing them based on layout and design features. like room areas and orientation, extracted from an extensive database of annotated rooms. this approach shifted room classification from manual to automated, data-driven methods. following this, mewada et al. [26] proposed an innovative floorplan information retrieval al- gorithm based on shape extraction and room identification. this work further advanced room classification by leveraging geometric analysis, allowing for more nuanced differentiation between room types, critical for tailoring fire safety measures to specific room functions and designs. more recently, paudel et al. [27] explored using graph neural networks for room classification on building floorplan. by representing floorplans as undirected graphs, their method demonstrated substantial accuracy improvements over baseline deep learning methods. this approach showcased the effectiveness of advanced ai techniques in capturing the intricate relationships and patterns within architectural layouts, crucial for accurate room classification. these developments in room classification technology are crucial for enhancing fire risk assessment, allowing for precise application of fire safety standards and effective evacuation strategy planning based on room functions. the move towards ai-driven methods marks significant progress in understanding the intricacies of architectural design for safety and compliance purposes. 2.1.3. information and knowledge extraction the extraction of detailed and accurate information from building blueprints is fundamental in automated blueprint interpretation for fire risk assessment and compliance checking. this involves not just recognising architectural elements and room classifications but also understanding deeper layers of information such as material specifica- tions, fire safety facilities, and other semantic details that are crucial for a thorough fire safety analysis. initial developments in this area were primarily rule-based systems focused on keywords. for instance, hirasawa et al.s [28] work demon- strated the potential of cad systems in intelligent information pro- cessing, particularly in systematising knowledge like technical standard reviews and constructibility investigations in construction projects. following this, lu et al. [29] introduced a method for automated knowledge extraction from engineering table drawings, proving signifi- cant for extracting safety-critical information from complex engineering drawings. a notable advancement in this field came with the application of deep learning techniques. schnfelder et al. [30] proposed a deep learning-based method for detecting and classifying text elements in legacy architectural drawings. this approach is particularly relevant for automating the extraction of room stamps and textual data from floor- plans, thereby facilitating the enrichment of digital twins of existing structures with detailed and accurate information. the progression in information and knowledge extraction tech- nologies is pivotal for enhancing the accuracy and efficiency of fire risk assessments. by automating the process of extracting detailed and relevant information from blueprints, these technologies reduce the risk of human error and ensure a more comprehensive understanding of the buildings characteristics and potential fire hazards. 2.1.4. floorplan vectorisation floorplan vectorisation represents a vital component in the au- tomated interpretation of building blueprints, especially for fire risk assessment and compliance checking. this process involves convert- ing rasterised images of blueprints into vector graphics, which are more conducive to machine processing and analysis. vectorisation not only simplifies the representation of complex building layouts but also ensures that the geometric and topological information of buildings is accurately captured in a format that can be readily analysed by automated systems. dehbi et al. [25] focused on developing a classifier to predict the functional use of housing rooms. their approach utilised features the field of floorplan vectorisation began with significant con- tributions like liu et al.s [31] learning-based approach to convert 3 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 table 1 summary of key areas in automated interpretation of building blueprints. area key contributions cad conversion/digitalisation room classification information and knowledge extraction floorplan vectorisation early systems for understanding hand-drawn architectural drawings [21]; development of 3d cad models from mechanical drawings [22]; structural modelling for cad interpretation [23]; automatic labelling of cad floorplans [24]. classifier for functional use of housing rooms [25]; floorplan information retrieval algorithm [26]; graph neural networks for room classification [27]. cad systems for knowledge processing in construction [28]; automated analysis of engineering drawing layouts [29]; deep learning for text classification in architectural drawings [30]. conversion of rasterised images to vector graphics [31]; embedding floorplans as vectors using attributed graphs [32]; 2d to 3d vector data conversion [33]; vectorising line drawings for topology [34]. implication enhanced ability to process diverse blueprint formats identification of room types for fire safety standards enables extraction of crucial safety information and details from blueprints provides detailed and accurate representations of building layouts rasterised floorplan images into vector graphics. their method em- ployed a neural architecture to transform an image into a set of junctions, representing low-level geometric and semantic information. their method was pivotal in creating vectorised floorplans that could be easily processed by automated systems. following this, azizi et al. [32] presented a technique for embedding floorplans as vectors using an attributed graph. this approach incorporated geometric information, design semantics, and behavioural features, utilising long short-term memory (lstm) and variational autoencoder (vae) architectures to generate meaningful and accurate vector representations for floorplans. this technique allowed for a richer representation that included both physical layout and functional aspects of spaces. recent advancements have expanded the scope of vectorisation. park and kim [33] developed a method for converting 2d raster drawings into 3d vector models, enhancing the understanding of build- ing structures. similarly, zhang et al. [34] introduced a method for vectorising line drawings of varying thicknesses, focusing on recon- structing their topology, crucial for interpreting complex architectural details accurately. these developments in floorplan vectorisation have significantly improved the ability to conduct thorough fire risk assessments and compliance checks. by providing accurate and detailed building layout representations, these technologies facilitate a more comprehensive analysis of potential fire hazards and safety measures. 2.1.5. summary as summarised in table 1, this review has traversed the landscape of automated interpretation of building blueprints. four critical ar- eas: cad conversion/digitalisation, room classification, information and knowledge extraction, and floorplan vectorisation were explored. each of these areas represents a fundamental component in the complex process of blueprint interpretation, and their collective advancements depict a rapidly evolving field driven by technological innovation. a key trend observed across all categories is the increasing reliance on advanced ai and machine learning techniques. these technolo- gies are not only enhancing the accuracy and efficiency of interpret- ing blueprints but are also enabling the processing of more complex and data-rich building representations. however, these technological advancements also highlight a gap, i.e., the need for standardised protocols and comprehensive approach to integrate these diverse tech- nologies into a cohesive system for fire risk assessment and compliance checking. 2.2. automated building fire risk assessment and compliance checking 2.2.1. building regulations on fire safety evacuation requirements as rapid and safe evacuation is pivotal in minimising fire hazards, one of the cornerstones of fire safety design is the management of evacuation routes, specifically the distances people must travel to reach safety. examining how different countries regulate means of escape and evacuation travel distances provides valuable insights into how fire risks may be assessed and mitigated. table 2 summarises the fire safety regulations regarding fire safety evacuation from four major countries: australia, china, italy, and the uk. these regulations were selected due to their public accessibility and representativeness of broader practices across their respective con- tinents and regions. these regulations outline the design and safety features necessary for residential buildings, focusing on the criteria for escape routes and travel distance requirements. the national construc- tion code (ncc) 2019 volume one amendment 1 [35] of australia requires two exits for buildings taller than 25 metres or those exceed- ing six stories. specifically, it details exit travel distances for class 2 and class 3 buildings, which encompass the most common residential building types. the regulations stipulate that the entrance doorway of any sole-occupancy unit must be no more than 6 metres from an exit or from a point from which travel in different directions to 2 exits is available. alternatively, it can be up to 20 metres from a single exit that leads directly to a road or open space. moreover, any area within a room that is not a sole-occupancy unit must not exceed 20 metres from an exit or from a point at which travel in different directions to 2 exits is available. according to the code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016 - 2014) [17] of china, two exits are required for buildings with an effective height of over 54 m. the mtd varies with fire resistance levels, ranging from 15 to 22 metres for any point to flat door and 25 to 40 metres for flat door to stair lobby, increasing with the fire resistance levels of the building. the technical fire prevention standards [36] of italy require two exits in most buildings; in buildings where occupants exceed 150 with a high-risk profile or over 500 in general, three exits are stipulated. the document specifies that the travel distances should not exceed 20 to 70 metres depending on the risk category determined by the reference risk profile. the uk building regulations 2010, approved document b (fire safety) volume 1: dwellings (2019) [19], specifies the requirements for means of escape in residential buildings. it allows a single escape route from the flat entrance door under certain conditions, such as the flat being on a storey served by a single common stair with protective measures. the mtd from any point to the flat entrance door in a habitable room must not exceed 9 m, and from the flat door to the stair lobby, the distances can vary from 7.5 to 30 m, depending on the number of escape routes available. the uk regulation has been adopted as a basis for the criteria for the proposed automated fire risk assessment approach due to its comprehensive guidelines for residential buildings and because a significant portion of the blueprint data used in this study is sourced from the uk. however, the proposed approach is flexible and can be readily extended to accommodate compliance checking under different national codes. 4 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 table 2 international building regulations on fire safety evacuation requirements. country australia china italy uk number of means of escape escape travel distances 2 exits required for: (a) effective height > 25 m (b) more than 6 stories 2 exits required for: (a) effective height > 54 m (b) 54 m > effective height > 27 m and area > 650 m2 and any distance from flat door to stair > 10 m (c) effective height < 27 m and area > 650 m2 and any distance from flat door to stair > 15 m 3 exits required for: (a) occupants > 150 and high risk profile (b) occupants > 500 most other cases: 2 exits single escape route is acceptable under specific conditions such as served with single common stair with protective measures; otherwise, two exits required from unit to entrance doorway < 20 m from any point to flat door < 15 m/20 m/22 m (varying by fire resistance level) from flat door to stair lobby < 25 m/35 m/40 m (varying by fire resistance level) escape routes and travel distances ranging from 20 m to 70 m based on risk profile from any point to flat door < 9 m from flat door to stair lobby < 7.5 m/30 m (escape in one direction/ in more than one direction) overall, the number of required evacuation exits typically ranges from one to three depending on the storey heights and occupancy levels, whereas the mtds are distinctly set by each country to enhance safety and minimise response time during evacuations. although the specific distances and requirements vary, the universal aim of these regulations is to keep travel distances as short as possible to facilitate rapid and safe evacuations in the event of a fire. 2.2.2. automated code compliance checking building fire risk assessment and compliance checking is a complex process that often requires years of expertise, an in-depth understand- ing of the national building codes and manual labour. these critical processes evaluate adherence to fire safety standards, pinpoint poten- tial area of risks requiring attention, and are pivotal in safeguarding buildings against fire hazards [3740]. research has underscored the negligence of fire safety preparedness in healthcare facilities, revealing shortcomings in equipment, systems, and staff awareness [37]. simi- larly, educational institutions frequently exhibit non-compliance with fire codes, manifested through inadequate knowledge, absence of dedi- cated fire response teams, and disregard for regulatory mandates [41]. comprehensive audits are imperative for ensuring conformity with fire protection regulations, scrutinising aspects like evacuation protocols, smoke barriers, and the fire resistance of building components [42]. although these measures are instrumental in mitigating fire risks, safe- guarding occupants, and enhancing a buildings overall fire safety pro- file, the manual approaches to building fire risk assessment and compli- ance checking are notably error-prone, time-consuming and costly [7]. consequently, the automation of building code compliance checks has gained considerable attention as a promising alternative. this process typically include four phases: rule interpretation, building design model preparation for assessment, rule execution and reporting [43]. early developments of national regulation checking systems like seumter [44], corenet [45], smartcodes [46], and gsa [47] represent foundational efforts in developing systems for automating general building code compliance checking. the checking process is concerned with comparing a building design to the relevant regula- tions, and building information models (bims) provide detailed design information in a computer-readable format. consequently, most exist- ing automated code compliance checking systems predominantly rely on information extracted from bim models, typically aligning with the ifc schema [48]. recent studies in general building automated code compliance have leveraged modern technologies to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of building safety regulations and design evaluations. a significant shift from traditional hard-coded rule-based systems to ontological and semantic rule-based systems has been observed. malsane et al. [8] developed a semantically rich object model for automating compliance checking, specifically focusing on fire safety in dwelling houses using ifc-based bim data. jiang et al. [9] proposed a multi-ontology fusion methodology, which integrates ontologies with rule-based reasoning for automated code compliance. this method combines a code ontology with a designed model ontology using a grey-box technique, stream- lining the checking process. furthermore, fitkau and hartmann [10] introduced the fire safety ontology (fisa) for automatic compliance checking of structural fire safety requirements, emphasising the need for formalising domain knowledge. the integration of various rules and data sources in automated compliance checking has also emerged as a notable research area, with ghannad et al. [49] presenting a framework for automated bim data validation. this framework integrates an open-standard standard, legalruleml, pointing to the potential for modularised design evalua- tion processes in promoting transparency, flexibility, and interoperabil- ity. beach et al. [50] proposed an ecosystem approach to compliance checking, aiming to integrate a variety of software tools and data models, extending beyond bim data. extensive research has also focused on automating the process of capturing building regulations into a computer-readable format. zhang et al. [51] integrated semantic natural language processing (nlp) with logic reasoning for fully automated code checking. they concentrated on extracting and formalising requirements from codes using nlp and logic-based reasoning. zhou and el-gohary [52] used deep learning for semantic information alignment in bims, targeting the automation of the alignment of rules and building information for energy compliance checking. additionally, zhang and el-gohary [53] explored the use of natural language generation and deep learning for intelligent build- ing codes, aiming to reduce errors in requirement representation and facilitate intelligent code analytics. machine learning and deep learning techniques have also been explored recently in automated compliance checking. bloch et al. [54] introduced graph-based learning using graph neural networks for auto- mated code checking, representing a shift towards scalable solutions in automated code compliance using deep learning models with attempts to eliminate the need for hard-coded rules. table 3 summarises the advancements in utilising modern tech- niques to improve the automated code compliance checking process. however, the existing literature primarily focused on general code 5 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 table 3 summary of literature on automated code compliance checking. literature input requirements scope technical approach ghannad et al. [49] bosch [55] nahangi and haas [56] patlakas et al. [57] malsane et al. [8] zhang et al. [51] beach et al. [50] general regulation dimensional compliance building regulation with open-standard schema 3d scans and structured cad information 3d scans and structured cad information component dimensions and coordinates dimensional compliance fire safety ifc-based bim model ifc-based bim model general regulation bim data integrated with software tools general regulation pipe spool fabrication jiang et al. [9] ifc-based bim model general regulation zhou and el-gohary [52] xue and zhang [58] zhang and el-gohary [53] fitkau and hartmann [10] bloch et al. [54] multiple data representations of bim models semantically annotated building code semantically annotated building code semi-structured interviews with fire safety planners building geometric data provided in any representation general regulation general regulation general regulation fire safety general regulation visual programming and rule-based reasoning mathematical model rule-based reasoning mathematical model rule-based reasoning natural language processing integration with existing platforms ontology model/ semantic rule-based system natural language processing natural language processing natural language processing ontology model/ semantic rule-based system graph neural networks compliance checking, with a lack of specific emphasis on fire risks. most systems relied on detailed structured data such as bim models, limiting their applicability in scenarios where such data is incomplete or unavailable. it highlights the imperative for more exhaustive inves- tigations in automated building fire risk assessment and the necessity to explore alternative methodologies, such as the direct interpretation of building layout blueprints, to enhance understanding and mitigation of building fire risks, particularly through retrofitting strategies for buildings without bim data. this gap underscores the need for develop- ing systems capable of effective automated code compliance with less structured data, such as 2d cad drawings, and focusing specifically on fire risk compliance. 2.3. ai for building layout designing automated design processes of building layouts have garnered re- search interest even prior to the advent of deep learning, aimed at enhancing design efficiency and reducing manual labour costs [59,60]. a number of studies have illuminated the potential of deep learning techniques in generating building blueprints. zhou et al. [61] presented an approach for automatically generative design and optimisation of hospital building layouts. huang et al. [62] deployed generative ad- versarial networks (gans), a subset of deep generative models, for generating floorplans, segmenting various functional areas to facilitate data-driven design. sharma et al. [63] utilised convolutional neural networks (cnn) and gans for the detection and retrieval of blueprints. moreover, nauata et al. [64] introduced a graph-constrained floorplan generative model grounded in gans. jiang et al. [65] proposed a site-embedded generative adversarial network (esgan) for automated building layout generation, which encodes a conditional vector to im- prove performance in different design scenarios and display generated layouts at varying levels of detail based on humansystem interaction. noteworthy is the recent advent of the diffusion model [66] as an emer- gent technique in deep generative models. dhariwal and nichol [67] refined the architecture of diffusion models through classifier guid- ance, surpassing the performance of gans in image synthesis. shabani et al. [68] introduced significant advancements in floorplan design that are achieved with diffusion model, which outperforms state-of-the-art methods on the rplan [69] building interior floorplan dataset. deep learning methods, particularly deep generative models, have the potential to efficiently design a diverse variety of building blueprints, thereby facilitating enhanced room connectivity and the optimisation of evacuation routes through the reconfiguration of build- ing layouts. however, these methods have not yet been integrated into a risk management workflow, specifically in using ai to redesign blueprints to reduce risks. this integration could represent a significant advancement in the field of fire safety and risk management. 3. research methodology this research develops an innovative approach based on ai tech- niques, depicted in fig. 1, to aid in building fire risk assessment and proactive mitigation, consisting of three interconnected steps. (1) step 1, automated polymorphic building blueprint standardisation and interpretation, involves pre-processing polymorphic building blueprints for analysis. this includes resizing, denoising, binarisation, and mor- phological processing. computer vision and automatic information ex- traction techniques are used to identify the structural and functional aspects of buildings. this step generates two outputs: the vectorised floorplan layout and the blueprint metadata that contains material specifications, room type identification, fire safety facilities, and struc- tural dimensions of the building design. (2) step 2, automated building fire risk assessment, combines the information extracted from the pre- vious step to evaluate the interconnectivity of each spatial segment. the emphasis in this step is on determining room-to-exit evacuation distances to assess fire risks. (3) step 3, ai-enabled building fire risk mitigation, focuses on redesigning blueprints identified as high risk in step 2. this is accomplished by developing a deep generative model to modify and adjust the layout. 3.1. automated polymorphic building blueprints interpretation in step 1 of the proposed approach, diverse architectural blueprints are standardised to generate a uniform, computer-readable format. this step sets the foundation for the subsequent analysis. the diverse nature and varying standards of the original blueprints necessitate a robust pre-processing approach, which is critical for accurate interpre- tation. as illustrated in fig. 2, this blueprint standardisation approach encompasses resizing, denoising, size reduction, binarisation, and mor- phological operations, which collectively work to enhance the blueprint image quality, reducing noise and amplifying critical features necessary for precise interpretation. the initial stage of image processing involves resizing, which alters the width and height of the image. gaussian filtering is utilised to de- compose image frequencies using specified parameters like sigma and window size, enhancing the performance of edge-detection algorithms that are prone to noise interference. following this, grey processing is employed to convert rgb images to greyscale, thereby averting poten- tial distortion during size reduction. the binarisation technique then 6 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 fig. 1. the proposed approach of automated building fire risk assessment and mitigation. fig. 2. polymorphic blueprint standardisation approach. converts the floorplan images to a black-and-white format, facilitating object features and edge extraction. lastly, morphological operations are applied to refine image clarity and facilitate feature extraction. with the standardisation completed, the proposed approach begins on a series of complex interpretation tasks, including room segmenta- tion, layout extraction, room information extraction, and the identifi- cation of fire safety facilities including fire exits. these tasks are segre- gated into two primary categories: contour processing, which handles the macro-level interpretation of blueprint layouts, and room-related processing, focusing on the micro-level details within the blueprints. fig. 3 depicts the overall automated blueprint interpretation pro- cess, which commences with identifying fundamental contours that define the buildings structure, employing a series of processing ele- ments like contour detection, calibration, extraction, and segmentation. this is supplemented by colour detection, particularly for objects coded by colour, aiding in the comprehensive understanding of the blueprint. techniques such as ruler detection and pixel counting are employed in calculating room dimensions and for determining evacuation routes. subsequently, the system delves into capturing more nuanced informa- tion, including doors, fire exits, sprinkler systems, and textual data like room functions and dimensions. this is achieved through a combination of geometric recognition and advanced ocr algorithms. during the interpretation process, various computer vision functions and algorithms have been employed. for instance, the canny edge [70] detection function is crucial for outlining image contours through a series of steps, including noise reduction, gradient calculation, and edge tracking. the integration of vertical and horizontal line detection enables effective segmentation of the blueprint into distinct rooms. furthermore, the contrast limited adaptive histogram equalisation (clahe) [71] technique is employed to enhance the clarity of scanned images, especially useful for accurately interpreting scaled rulers and calculating precise room areas and evacuation distances. the use of both single-object and multi-object matching methods facilitates the extraction of specific entities, such as fire safety facilities, from the blueprints. the outputs of the blueprint interpretation process comprise two fundamental elements. the first is a vectorised floorplan, providing a streamlined and consistent representation of the original layout. the second is an extensive set of enhanced blueprint metadata, en- compassing crucial information like material specifications, room type 7 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 fig. 3. automated polymorphic building blueprints interpretation process. fig. 4. automated building fire risk assessment process. identification, fire safety facilities, and structural dimensions. this in- tegration of a standardised vectorised floorplan with detailed enhanced blueprint metadata lays a solid foundation for a practical and auto- mated fire risk assessment, ensuring a comprehensive approach where relevant factors are considered in evaluating building fire safety. integrating a standardised vectorised floorplan with the rich en- hanced blueprint metadata lays the groundwork for a practical and automated fire risk assessment. for further insights into the detailed methodological process of the standardisation and overall interpre- tation process, readers are directed to our previous work [20,72]. this comprehensive approach ensures that all relevant factors are considered when evaluating fire-related risks of a building. 3.2. automated building fire risk assessment building on the standardised and well-interpreted blueprints from section 3.1, essential parameters such as vectorised bounding boxes for room layouts, floor height, available emergency evacuation means (e.g. windows and doors), and fire resistance levels of building ma- terials, specifically their rei standards [73], a quantitative fire re- sistance rating, have been acquired. this subsection elucidates the knowledge-based algorithm driving the automated building fire risk assessment. the proposed fire risk assessment criteria largely draws from the uk building regulations 2010, specifically the approved document b (fire safety) volume 1: dwellings, 2019 [19]. this document elucidates how floor placement within a building impacts standards (sections 2.4 2.6), provides specifications for compliant emergency escape windows and doors (section 3.6), discusses the permissible interconnectivity of habitable rooms and the allowance of inner rooms (sections 3.73.8), defines precise mtd lengths (section 3.18 b), and outlines conditions under which the distance from a room door to a fire exit can replace traditional mtd measurements (sections 3.19 and 3.18 a). it is crucial to understand that the scope of this approach is to validate the practicality of automated fire risk assessment directly for building blueprints. this entails showcasing the approachs capabilities in automating the fire risk assessment process for building layout blueprints and establishing its practical applicability within the context of uk building regulations, addressing geometric and topological as- pects of the design, particularly the mtd criterion. this research is not intended to encompass a full-scale building code compliance check but to demonstrate a capable and flexible automated fire risk assessment method within a specific scope of building regulations. fig. 4 depicts the overall automated fire risk assessment process. to craft the requisite automated fire risk assessment algorithm, founda- tional blueprint information garnered in step 1 is utilised. this paves the way for advanced analysis, which enables the computation of mtd and the determination of the presence of inner rooms. all the spaces and distances within a building are abstracted and integrated into a weighted undirected graph, resulting in a room con- nectivity graph, . this graph can be mathematically represented as  = ( , ), where  = {} =1 signifies the ensemble of rooms and fire exits (an exit is considered an external room), and  = { } represents the connectivity between roomsif present, it indicates that two vertices (rooms or exits) are linked. in this representation,  indicates the aggregate number of rooms and exits. typically,  is synonymous with the singular exit of a building. the connection,  , denotes the pairwise linkage between room  and room  . each room, , while serving as a vertex in the connectivity graph, also encapsulates the geometric attributes of the space it represents. 8 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 this dual functionality is achieved by associating each  with a bound- ing box, defined by a collection of  corner coordinates in a two- dimensional space, formalised as   r2. here,  refers to the count of corners defining the room space. to exemplify, for a square room,  equals four. to infer room connectivity, bounding boxes (encompassing rooms, doors, and exits) derived from vectorised blueprints are assessed using the intersection over union (iou) method. this evaluation facilitates the automated identification of connections (i.e., doors) between each room and its adjacent rooms or exits.  refers to the door between rooms  and  , with doors themselves being exempt from the graph model . a door, , connecting two rooms is inferred if the iou of  with both rooms is greater than zero and holds the highest iou value compared to any other room. the comprehensive interconnections of all rooms and exits are encapsulated in the adjacency matrix   r . each element  in this matrix is a floating-point number, quantifying the distance between room spaces  and  . this distance is approximated by computing the direct linear distance, , between the centroids of bounding boxes of the room spaces. this resulting value  is integrated into the adjacency matrix  using the mathematical expression:  = (,  )       0  if iou(,  ) > 0  iou( ,  ) > 0  (   , ) iou(,  )  iou(,  )  iou(,  )  iou( ,  ) otherwise, (1) employing the connectivity graph structure, an analysis is applied to this undirected graph as detailed in algorithm 1, to check whether all habitable rooms are at most one room away from the exit. the algorithm initialises by defining a set  containing all habitable rooms, and for each room  in , employs a breadth-first search (bfs) strategy to explore paths from  to  . during the bfs, a queue  and a visited set  are initialised, adding the current room  with its depth (initially 0) as a tuple to the queue. bfs expands the search layer by layer, ensuring nodes are processed in proximity order, and continues until an exit is found or it is confirmed that the exit cannot be reached within a two-room limit, ultimately outputting a boolean to signify the presence of inner habitable rooms that meet the specified connectivity criteria. furthermore, each rooms theoretical escape route is framed as a shortest-path problem, for which dijkstras algorithm [74] is employed. this algorithm uses a greedy strategy to iteratively select the nearest unvisited node and update the distances to adjacent nodes, thereby calculating the escape distances for all habitable rooms. moreover, for designs adhering to specific criteriaincluding rei 30 standard for a protected hall, compliance of room doors with fire door standards, and a direct access provision from the room door to the hallthe mtd can be exempted and replaced by the furthest linear distance from any habitable room door to the fire exit. fire risk factors, such as mtd and inner rooms, are retrieved by employing the aforementioned intercon- nectivity graph analysis methodologies on these building blueprints. combining these factors makes up a fire risk factors collection used for automated regulation compliance checking. towards the end of the automated fire risk assessment process, a rule-based conditional evaluation, as illustrated in fig. 5, is employed to determine whether the building blueprint meets the requisite fire risk regulatory criteria. this conditional evaluation process is based on a series of yes or no decisions on the fire risk factors, including the value of mtd and the presence of inner habitable rooms. the final outcome of this evaluation is represented as either a pass or fail verdict, thereby providing a clear and decisive assessment of the buildings compliance with fire safety norms. algorithm 1 inner habitable room checking algorithm require: an undirected graph  with vertices  and edges . ensure: boolean indicating whether all habitable rooms in  are at most one room away from the exit  . end if end if return false if not validconnectiontoexit(, ) then initialise a queue  to empty let  be an empty set enqueue (, 0) into  return bfs(, , ) 1: let    be the set of all habitable rooms in . 2: for each room  in  do if    then 3: 4: 5: 6: 7: 8: end for 9: return true 10: function validconnectiontoexit(, ) 11: 12: 13: 14: 15: end function 16: function bfs(, , ) 17: 18: 19: 20: 21: 22: 23: 24: 25: 26: 27: 28: 29: 30: 31: 32: end function for each  of  in  do if  not in  then add  to  enqueue (,  + 1) into  (, )  dequeue from  if  =  then return true end if end while return false end if if  < 2 then while  is not empty do end for end if 3.3. ai-enabled building fire risk mitigation the proposed fire risk mitigation approach leverages advanced deep generative models, particularly diffusion models, to redesign unquali- fied architectural floorplans. employing the room connectivity graph from the original design as a constraint, the model optimises the mtd to ensure safety compliance while adhering to room types and counts of the original design specified in the constraint. to conceptualise the generative task of redesigning blueprints within the proposed fire risk mitigation approach, a set of bounding boxes encompassing all spaces within the house is introduced, denoted as . to elaborate,  =    , where  represents a set of doors  and  stands for a set of rooms and the exits. the room connectivity graph  of the original building layout serves as a condition to guide the mitigation deep generative model so that the generated floorplans align with the room types and counts of the initial design. diffusion models operate through a sequence of gradual transfor- mations between data and noise distribution. this process is mathe- matically formulated in two main stages: the forward diffusion pro- cess (adding noise) and the reverse diffusion process (denoising) [66]. guided diffusion introduced classifier guidance to condition the dif- fusion models to enhance the control over training and generation phases [67]. the forward diffusion process gradually adds noise to the original data  to transform it into a gaussian noise distribution over a se- quence of  steps. a markov chain can represent this process where each step, , adds a small amount of gaussian noise to the data. the process is designed so that  is nearly indistinguishable from pure noise. the reverse diffusion process aims to learn the reverse of the 9 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 fig. 5. rule-based conditional evaluation on the fire risk factors. fig. 6. ai-enabled building fire risk mitigation. forward process, starting from noise and progressively removing it to reconstruct the data. it involves training a neural network model  to estimate the original data 0 from the noise  . this is achieved through stepwise denoising, where the model functions close to a series of denoising autoencoders: (, );  = 1,  ,  (2) here, the autoencoders (, ) are implemented through transformer- based [75] u-net architectures [76] and are trained to predict the denoised form of their input . the guided diffusion model is utilised in the adopted approach, and the room connectivity graph  is employed as the guided condition.  is initialised with gaussian noise and the room connectivity graph . using  as the condition, the model continuously de-noises to automat- ically generate  with the complete bounding box vector coordinates; this continuous reverse process can be summarised as: generate building floorplan blueprints that adhere to the respective room connectivity layout. fig. 6 depicts the comprehensive workflow of the proposed ai- enabled fire risk mitigation process. upon employing the diffusion model, initially randomised room vectors are refined through a con- tinuous denoising process, guided by . this approach ensures that the redesigned blueprints meet fire safety criteria and align with the room types and counts of the original design. generated blueprints are subsequently filtered and assessed for fire risk using methods from section 3.2. additional filterings were implemented to improve blueprint aesthetics and design rationale. those not meeting the criteria are discarded, prompting a reiteration of the redesign process. this iterative mechanism ensures that only those blueprints that successfully pass the fire risk assessment while maintaining a level of adherence to the original design intent are finalised as mitigation solutions. 4. implementation and case study ,(1|, ) = (1|)(|) (3) here, the  is a normalisation constant, (|) denotes the con- dition classifier. the proposed guided diffusion model for risk mitigation was de- veloped based on the work of shabani et al. [68]. the adopted model was trained on 50,000 floorplans sourced from the rplan dataset [69]. after processing and standardisation, as detailed in section 3.1, parts of the techniques described in section 3.2 were applied, especially the formula (1), to construct the room connectivity graph . the model was trained with  as the condition guiding the diffusion model to this case study aims to demonstrate the applicability and effec- tiveness of the proposed approach in interpreting, evaluating, and mitigating fire risks from residential building blueprints. this case study focuses on residential buildings due to the prevalence of acces- sible public datasets and the significant impact that improved fire risk assessment can have on enhancing safety within such environments. this case study utilised public data sources of residential floorplans and a selected set of blueprints of real residential buildings. the public dataset, notably the rplan dataset, provided a comprehensive base of floorplan designs, while the inclusion of blueprints of real resi- dential buildings aimed to enrich this base with additional metadata 10 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 table 4 python libraries and packages used in the proposed approach. library feature a library for reading and writing images in various formats a plotting library for creating static, interactive, and animated visualisations a package for creating complex networks of nodes and edges a fundamental package for scientific computing with python an open source computer vision and machine learning software library adds image processing capabilities to the python imaging library (pil) fork a python interface to the graphviz graph visualisation package a collection of algorithms for image processing in python a library for scientific computing and technical computing imageio [77] matplotlib [78] networkx [79] numpy [80] opencv [81] pillow [82] pygraphviz [83] scikit-image [84] scipy [85] tesseract-ocr [86] an ocr engine for various operating systems, wrapped into python via pytesseract pytesseract [87] pytorch [88] an ocr tool for python, based on the tesseract-ocr engine an open source machine learning library fig. 7. data usage for the implemented case study. necessary for a thorough fire risk assessment. the development of a semi-synthetic dataset enabled detailed analysis of fire risk assessment across varied residential layouts. the proposed approach was implemented in python, leveraging a suite of libraries and packages outlined in table 4. the case study was developed using anaconda platform with intel xeon cpu and nvidia tesla t4 gpu. 4.1. automated polymorphic building blueprint standardisation and inter- pretation the first step focuses on the standardisation and interpretation of building blueprints, which was conducted in alignment with method- ologies and computer vision models developed in our previous works [20,72], as also outlined in section 3.1. these methods were im- plemented to process a select number of real residential blueprints. this was not a large-scale analysis but a focused extraction from a manage- able subset of blueprints, chosen for their relevance and representation of common building features. the core objective here was to extract the blueprint metadata, which included material specifications, room type identification, fire safety facilities, and structural dimensions. these elements are essential for assessing fire risks and compliance checks against the proposed assessment criteria drawn from the uk building regulations. for instance, material specifications help identify the use of fire-resistant materials in crucial areas like protected entrances and fire doors. room type identification is critical for determining which rooms are habitable, as regulations specify that habitable rooms should not be inner rooms. the analysis of fire safety facilities focuses on clearly defined fire exits. at the same time, structural dimensions, including floor height, are essential for calculating the distance from rooms to exits and can influence the assessment outcomes. simul- taneously, 50,000 floorplans from the publicly available residential floorplan dataset, rplan [69], were processed, transforming them into a uniform vectorised format. this transformation was essential for training and evaluating the deep generative model later. however, these floorplans from rplan lacked the relevant blueprint metadata. as depicted in fig. 7, a semi-synthetic dataset was formed by processing publicly available floorplans from the rplan dataset and augmented with metadata extracted from a selection of real residen- tial blueprints. the augmentation process involved randomly assign- ing extracted metadata to the vectorised processed rplan floorplans, thereby enriching them with essential building features. this synthetic dataset offers general design information in the form of vectorised floorplans and the fire risk-related building metadata necessary for a comprehensive fire risk assessment. 4.2. automated fire risk assessment in verifying the automated fire risk assessment and the devel- oped deep generative model, the proposed fire risk assessment process utilises this synthetic dataset, combining the enhanced metadata with the rplan floorplans to conduct a thorough evaluation. the assessment adheres to parts of the rules outlined in the uk building regulations 2010, approved document b (fire safety) volume 1: dwellings, 2019 edition. one of the critical criteria evaluated is the mtd, as well as a focus on the compliance of room doors with fire door standards and the presence of a direct access provision from the room door to the entrance. in cases where specific conditions are met, such as adherence to the rei 30 standard for a protected entrance and fire doors present, the mtd requirement can be exempted and replaced by the linear distance from any habitable room door to the fire exit. fig. 8 showcases three examples of the results from the implemented automated fire risk assessment with additional design rationality filter- ing. the assessments leveraged randomly assigned blueprint metadata, particularly focusing on rei ratings to determine the compliance of floorplans with fire safety standards. for example, figs. 8(a) and 8(b) did not meet mtd requirements, exceeding the maximum distance of 9 m. however, fig. 8(b), with its rei 30 protected entrance and compliance with fire door standards, passed the assessment as the mtd 11 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 code compliance and fire risk assessment to include less structured data sources. compared to previous methods, the developed approach is overper- forming in its processing efficiency by providing a more streamlined solution, system capability by delivering a full-cycle approach to assess and mitigate building fire risks, data accessibility by utilising public datasets for developing the proposed approach, and system flexibility by its applicability for a wide range of buildings with or without bim data. 5.1. system robustness and efficiency 5.1.1. robustness to handle image noises the developed approach is initiated by interpreting raw building blueprints. however, the quality of these blueprints varies due to fac- tors such as lighting conditions, ageing of the documents, creases, and degradation during digital transmission. the effects of image noises on the blueprint interpretation process are crucial as they impact the effec- tiveness of subsequent fire risk assessment and mitigation algorithms. consequently, assessing the robustness of the blueprint interpretation algorithm against different noise distributions is of interest. to simulate real-world noise conditions, clear blueprint images were artificially altered by introducing two common types of image noise: gaussian and salt-and-pepper noise. gaussian noise, typically a result of electronic and optical noise in the imaging sensors, especially prevalent under low light conditions [90], is introduced by adjusting the sigma levels to vary the noise intensity. conversely, salt-and-pepper noise, which simulates scenarios where digital images are degraded by sharp disturbances, such as transmission errors or faulty image sensors [91], is introduced similarly to test its impact. the effectiveness of the noise- introduced images was evaluated using the peak signal-to-noise ratio (psnr), a quantitative measure of image quality. generally, psnr values above 40 decibels (db) indicate excellent image quality, while values below 20 db suggest significant degradation [92]. the tests covered a range of noise levels from 40 db to 13 db. fig. 10 displays the effects of added noise on floorplan layout detection, specifically focused on room segmentation. the algorithm processes the images to recognise the layout and identify room areas, consistently identifying six rooms correctly until the psnr drops to 19 db. below 18 db, however, the accuracy declined, with misidentifi- cations and failures to recognise certain rooms occurring due to noise interference with the algorithms ability to detect wall pixels correctly. images with gaussian noise showed a more rapid decline in room recognition, dropping to three correctly identified rooms and missing some entirely. fig. 11 presents the detection accuracy of blueprint metadata, specifically the structural dimensions. up to an psnr of 22 db, both types of noise-affected images retained over 95% accuracy. unlike layout detection, the decline in accuracy due to salt-and-pepper noise was more pronounced, indicating a greater interference with ocr capabilities. the detection accuracy dropped significantly when the noise level exceeded 16 db, indicating a substantial impact on ocr performance. to summarise, the developed approach demonstrates robustness against gaussian and salt-and-pepper noise at levels above 20 db, effec- tively processing blueprints whose quality is somewhat compromised. however, more severe noise levels significantly reduce the performance of the blueprint interpretation algorithm. improving the resistance of the layout detection algorithm to gaussian noise and the ocr algorithm to salt-and-pepper noise is recommended for future works. 5.1.2. efficiency of processing furthermore, comparing efficiency between the developed approach and established bim-based methods, such as those represented by fitkau et al. [10] and malsane et al. [8], reveals marked distinctions. table 5 provides an estimated comparison of the time required for each phase of the compliance checking process using both the fig. 8. automated fire risk assessment outcomes. criteria were replaced by the furthest linear distance from any habit- able room door to the fire exit. additional filtering was implemented to enhance blueprint aesthetics and design rationale. blueprints with ambiguous or missing room doors, resulting in incorrect connectivity to the overall graph, were discarded, as shown in fig. 8(c). 4.3. ai-enabled building fire risk mitigation this implementation utilised pytorch to implement the deep gen- erative model based on the work of shabani et al. [68] for blueprint risk mitigation. the 50,000 processed rplan floorplans were employed for the training process. following the methods in section 3.2, room connectivity graphs  for each floorplan were constructed. the model was trained using the adam [89] optimiser with a learning rate of 0.001 on an nvidia tesla t4 gpu. each floorplans  served as the condition, guiding the diffusion model to generate designs adhering to the respective . fig. 9 displays the post-training redesign outcomes of the imple- mented risk mitigation diffusion model. these designs, which success- fully passed the automated fire risk assessment and additional filtering, exhibit diversity while meeting fire safety requirements. these designs also aligned with the room types and counts of the respective original designs, demonstrating that risk mitigation and design consistency are essential in the proposed approach. 5. discussion this research introduces an innovative, automated fire risk assess- ment and mitigation approach explicitly tailored to building blueprints. distinct in its approach, the study focuses on processing raw 2d floor- plan blueprints, a significant advancement over traditional methods that predominantly rely on structured bim data. the relevance of this study is underscored by its ability to bridge the gap for buildings lacking detailed bim data, thereby broadening the scope of automated 12 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 fig. 9. risk mitigation diffusion model redesign outcomes. fig. 10. layout detection results with varied noise levels; mis-segmented rooms highlighted by red bounding boxes. table 5 comparative efficiency analysis of automated compliance checking approaches. phase bim-based method [10] developed approach data collection and preparation risk and compliance checking risk mitigation 3h10h (building bim model) 510 min (ifc file importing and reasoning in protg) n/a (manual methods only)  60 s (blueprint processing)  2 s (direct execution)  40 s (using deep generative models) bim-based approach and the developed approach. previous bim-based methods require the input of a bim model for automated compliance checking, which involves substantial resource and time investment, particularly for buildings that do not already possess such models. bim modelling for large-scale projects can take months of work for a professional engineer [93]. the residential properties, as the focus of this work, although consisting of smaller areas, can still take a considerable time to model. for instance, semi-manually creating a bim model with the aid of a lidar system for three as-built single-room structures of approximately 50 square metres can take up to 200 min, as noted by li et al. [94]. once the bim model is constructed, it must be converted into an ifc file format and imported into protg for further analysis, adding additional steps and time to the process. in contrast, the developed approach initiates automated compli- ance checking directly from architectural blueprints without the need for manual bim model creation. this approach markedly reduces the preparatory phase, requiring approximately 60 s for blueprint prepro- cessing. furthermore, the risk and compliance checking phase of the developed approach, directly executed without needing file conversion, takes only about 2 s. in addition to the streamlined data collection and risk assessment processes, the developed approach also introduces an automated risk mitigation process, which is absent in previous methods. utilising deep generative models, the developed system can perform risk mitigation tasks in approximately 40 s. overall, the developed approach significantly outperforms the ex- isting bim-based method in terms of efficiency, providing a more 13 d. chen et al. table 6 comparative analysis of system capability. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 criteria developed approach fitkau et al. [10] zhang et al. [53] bloch et al. [54] li et al. [12] preprocessing risk assessment mitigation strategies fire risk coverage full-cycle capability yes, utilises raw 2d blueprints yes, connectivity graph-based approach yes, ai-driven layout redesign yes, with focus on blueprint analysis yes, from preprocessing to mitigation absent, structured data required yes, swrl rule-based analysis not addressed yes, building-code corpora preprocessing yes, risk inference using semantic representations not included absent, structured data required yes, using graph neural network classifier not addressed n/a (post-hazard focus) no direct risk assessment yes, evacuation planning yes, with focus on structural fire safety risk assessment only general compliance, potential for fire risk risk assessment only general compliance, potential for fire risk risk assessment only yes, specific to multifloor building evacuation mitigation-focused in essence, the system capability comparison highlights the devel- oped approachs comprehensive nature, innovatively benchmarking the automated fire risk assessment and mitigation. its full-cycle approach, from preprocessing raw blueprints to delivering ai-enabled mitigation solutions, marks a significant leap forward, filling gaps left by ex- isting research and paving the way for more integrated and holistic automated building safety and compliance solutions. 5.3. data accessibility for system development the comparison of data accessibility and usage, as detailed in table 7, plays a pivotal role in understanding the practical implications of different approaches to fire risk assessment and mitigation. the de- veloped approachs reliance on publicly accessible datasets, specifically the rplan dataset [69] stands in contrast to other studies that either depend on private datasets or require data that is not readily replicable. for instance, the works of fitkau et al. and zhang et al. utilise sources of data that are not easily accessible, or not readily available for replication or extending the work to broad applications [10,53]. fitkau et al. formed their study on building fire safety ontology knowledge model, based on expert knowledge extracted from various sources, including semi-structured interviews, which poses challenges in terms of replicability due to the confidential and expert-dependent nature of the information. zhang et al. processed and labelled semantically annotated building-code requirements from specific building codes, which, while public, involve complex preprocessing work to build the data foundation. in contrast, the proposed approachs use of open, publicly avail- able datasets with large volume of data exemplifies high accessibility, contributing to the ease of replication and scalability of the study. the use of vectorised building blueprint floorplans from a publicly available dataset enhances not only the approachs applicability but also positions it as a more inclusive tool, capable of catering to a broader range of architectural scenarios, especially those lacking in detailed bim models. the data accessibility aspect of the proposed approach thus un- derscores its potential for widespread application and adaptability. by harnessing publicly available data, the approach demonstrates a prag- matic approach to building safety solutions, making it an invaluable tool in the realm of fire risk assessment, especially for properties that fall beyond the scope of traditionally bim-based studies. 5.4. system flexibility the flexibility of the developed approach, as discussed in table 8, reveals its flexibility to different data formats and regulations, and broad application scope compared to other studies. this flexibility is primarily attributed to its capability to process raw 2d floorplan blueprint designs, which is a notable departure from the reliance on detailed bim models seen in other research. in the context of data format requirements, conventional automated compliance checking methods, like those conducted by fitkau et al. and zhang et al. necessitate ifc-based bim models [10,53]. while fig. 11. blueprint metadata ocr accuracy with varied noise levels. streamlined and less resource-intensive solution. this is particularly ad- vantageous in contexts where architectural data is not readily available in structured bim models. 5.2. system capability the comparative analysis of previous approaches, as depicted in table 6, underscores the unique capabilities of the developed approach in the automated building risk assessment and mitigation landscape. a critical examination reveals that, unlike many existing studies, this ap- proach offers a comprehensive full-cycle solution encompassing prepro- cessing, risk assessment, and mitigation steps. this end-to-end approach distinguishes it significantly from other research in the field, which primarily focuses on risk assessment without extending to mitigation solutions. a key aspect where the developed approach stands apart is its preprocessing capability. unlike studies that require structured data inputs, this approach is adept at processing raw 2d floorplan blueprints. this preprocessing stage is fundamental, as it allows for the application of advanced ai techniques to a wider range of properties, many of which may not have detailed bim models. the ability to work with such raw data sources considerably enhances the approachs applicability and utility in real-world scenarios. for risk assessment, the developed approach not only aligns with but also extends the capabilities of its counterparts. while studies like that of fitkau et al. [10] utilise swrl rule-based inference for risk and compliance assessment, they do not encompass the subsequent mitigation step. the proposed approachs integration of risk assessment with ai-driven mitigation techniques is a novel contribution, enabling it not only to identify potential fire risks but also to offer practical solutions for redesigning building layouts to mitigate these risks. moreover, the developed approachs coverage of fire risk is compre- hensive, addressing both the immediate assessment needs and provid- ing long-term mitigation strategies. this dual focus on assessment and mitigation is absent in other studies, which either concentrate solely on risk assessment or, as in the case of li et al. [12], focus on post-hazard mitigation without a preceding risk assessment phase. 14 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 table 7 comparison of data accessibility for system development. criteria developed approach fitkau et al. [10] zhang et al. [53] bloch et al. [54] li et al. [12] source of data type of data used public dataset vectorised building blueprint floorplans interviews with domain experts expert knowledge to develop an ontology model building codes (ibc, iecc, ada standards) semantically annotated building-code requirements synthetic, based on real-world floorplans pass/fail labelled graph representations data volume 50,000 floorplan designs availability publicly available building codes and 7 semi-structured interviews confidential 7500 sentences for training, 600 for testing publicly available accessibility high, use public data and clear processing method low, requires extensive expert knowledge average, publicly available regulations but with further selection process 1000 synthetic designs private to the specific study average, requires data synthesis abm simulations influencing factors and corresponding evacuation time 300 samples for training, 60 for testing private to the specific study average, requires setup of abm simulations using proprietary software table 8 comparison of system flexibility. criteria developed approach fitkau et al. [10] zhang et al. [53] bloch et al. [54] data format required flexibility to different regulations application scope raw 2d floorplan blueprint designs with/without bim models high, with adjustable parameters and rules broad, applicable to various types, including buildings with/without bim models ifc-based bim model ifc-based bim model high, with adjustable parameters and swrl rules average, with fixed rules extracted from given building code limited, only buildings with detailed bim models limited, only buildings with detailed bim models) building geometric and topological data in specific format average, need to adjust the pass/fail labels in training dataset to alter classifier results potentially broad, can use wide range of building data but requires manual data extraction such models offer comprehensive data for analysis, their requirement inherently limits the applicability of these frameworks to buildings where such detailed models are available. conversely, the proposed approachs utilisation of raw blueprints significantly broadens its ap- plication range, making it suitable for a variety of building types, particularly buildings which might not have bim data readily available. the flexibility to different buildings is further accentuated by the approachs flexibility in terms of parameter adjustments and rule ap- plication. unlike other studies that might require manual adjustments or offer limited flexibility in regulatory compliance, the proposed ap- proach is designed to adjust parameters and rules for different regula- tions, enhancing its versatility across various architectural designs and safety standards. moreover, the application scope of the proposed approach is notably broad. while some studies like that of bloch et al. [54] show potential in applying their methodologies to a wide range of data represented in graph format, the manual extraction of data poses a limitation. the proposed approach, with its ability to process less structured data formats, overcomes such limitations, offering a more accessible and user-friendly approach to fire risk assessment and mitigation. in summary, the flexibility comparison highlights the proposed approachs strength in terms of its flexibility and wide-ranging applica- bility. this flexibility makes the approach a viable option for a diverse array of building types and underscores its potential to make significant contributions in areas where current research is limited, especially in providing fire safety and compliance solutions for buildings lacking comprehensive bim data. 5.5. future directions the potential for future expansion and development of the proposed approach opens many ways for advancing automated building safety solutions in the designing and retrofitting stages. while the current implementation demonstrates significant efficacy in fire risk assessment and mitigation for buildings with only raw blueprint data, the foun- dational principles and methodologies established in this study have broader applicability. one potential direction for future development is expanding the approach to encompass a more comprehensive range of building code regulations. the current focus on fire risk assessment, particularly within the constraints of raw 2d floorplan blueprints, sets a strong foundation. however, extending this approach to include additional aspects of building safety regulations could significantly enhance the approachs utility. such an expansion would broaden the scope of risks and compliance issues that the approach can address and cater to a more diverse array of building types and design scenarios. another promising area for future development lies in the inte- gration of the developed approach with emerging technologies and data sources. for instance, incorporating real-time data from internet of things (iot) devices in buildings or leveraging advancements in ai and machine learning could further refine the risk assessment and mitigation processes. this integration could lead to more dynamic and responsive fire safety solutions, adapting to changing conditions within a building. one of the fundamental aspects of the proposed methodology is the abstraction of different areas and spaces into nodes, represent- ing the architecture internally as a graph. the proposed connectivity graph approach simplifies the complexity of architectural layouts into a computer-readable representation, demonstrating efficacy in calcu- lating the mtd and evaluating other risk compliance factors such as connectivity and identifying inner habitable rooms. as illustrated in fig. 12, the proposed graph-based analysis method- ology is applied to a complex office building blueprint featuring dozens of offices per floor. this complex connectivity can be efficiently ex- tracted to calculate mtd and inner rooms for comprehensive fire risk assessment using the same automated techniques in the current approach. this graph-based approach holds potential for broader ap- plications, such as incorporating real-time data from iot devices in buildings and leveraging spatialtemporal ai models to monitor and predict the feasibility of live evacuation routes. for instance, temporary blockages in passageways due to various reasons can be dynamically integrated into the model. this approach paves the way for constructing a graph-based digital twin of the building, enabling real-time acquisi- tion of interior data through multi-modal data fusion methods, such as 15 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 fig. 12. graph-based connectivity analysis in a complex office building. iot or camera-based analytics. integrating such live data can transform the current static risk analysis into a dynamic, constantly updating risk evaluation model and a digital twin of building risk. to summarise, with its innovative approach to fire risk assessment and mitigation, the proposed approach marks a significant advance- ment in the field and lays the groundwork for future developments. these expansions and integrations could further revolutionise the field of automated building risk and compliance assessment, making signifi- cant contributions to both individual building safety and broader urban risk management. 6. conclusion this paper has presented a comprehensive and innovative au- tomated fire risk assessment and mitigation approach for building blueprints, employing advanced ai and deep generative models. it first adopted computer vision techniques to standardise and interpret build- ing blueprints, extracting the vectorised floorplan layout and blueprint metadata containing critical building information. then, an automated building fire risk assessment approach was developed to construct the room connectivity graph from the processed vectorised floorplan and evaluate fire risks in the building based on room interconnectivity and evacuation distances. finally, it developed a deep generative model- enabled building fire mitigation approach to redesign building layouts and proactively address the identified risks. a case study has been investigated to verify the effectiveness of the developed approach on an application on residential buildings. evaluations demonstrated that the blueprint interpretation algorithm exhibits satisfactory robustness to image noises, ensuring reliable analysis under varying conditions. the findings showed that the developed approach is adept at au- tomating fire risk assessments directly utilising building blueprints by detecting potential risk factors and suggesting viable mitigation strategies, thereby offering a robust tool for enhancing building safety and compliance with fire safety regulations. compared to previous studies, a notable advancement is the ap- proachs full-cycle capability, encompassing raw blueprint interpre- tation, risk assessment, and risk mitigation. furthermore, integrated with ai-driven techniques, the developed approach can identify po- tential fire risks and proactively redesign building layouts to address these risks effectively. its ability to rapidly process and accurately refine building layouts while considering both fire safety and design rationality, highlights its potential as a forward-thinking solution in architectural safety and fire risk compliance. the flexibility in pro- cessing less structured raw blueprint data enhances the approachs applicability across various building types. this adaptability is further exemplified by the approachs ability to abstract complex architec- tural layouts into a graph-based representation, simplifying intricate design information into an analytically manageable, and computer- readable graph representation. in addition, the enhanced processing efficiency, by eliminating the need for manual bim model creation and ifc-file conversion, significantly reduces the time and resources required for automated compliance checking. the data accessibility of the developed approach, leveraging publicly available datasets like the rplan dataset, adds to its practical utility. using such data can also ensure ease of replication and scalability, making this approach a more inclusive tool for fire risk assessment and mitigation. this research contributes significantly to the field by providing a methodical approach to the automatic interpretation, risk assessment and mitigation using raw building blueprints. this study addresses a critical gap in automated fire risk assessment and compliance checking by providing methods to proactively address the identified risks and irregularities and effective automated fire risk management methods for buildings lacking structured and detailed bim data. the current implementation showcases notable effectiveness in au- tomating fire risk assessments and mitigation strategies using building blueprints. however, its application is primarily confined to addressing topological and geometric aspects as dictated by sections of building code regulations. future directions for this research include expanding the developed approach to cover a broader spectrum of building code regulations and incorporating a wider range of fire safety considera- tions, thereby broadening the scope of risks and compliance issues the approach can address. the established connectivity graph-modelling approach also lays a foundation to evolve the developed approach to 16 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 a graph-based building risk digital twin by leveraging real-time data acquisition through multimodal data fusion techniques such as iot sen- sors and camera-based analytics, transforming the static risk analysis into a dynamic, continuously updating model. these expansions and integrations could further revolutionise the field of automated building risk and compliance assessment, making significant contributions to both individual building safety and broader urban risk management. credit authorship contribution statement dayou chen: writing  original draft, validation, software, method- ology, investigation, formal analysis, data curation. long chen: writ- ing  review & editing, supervision, resources, project administration, methodology, funding acquisition, formal analysis, conceptualization. yu zhang: software, methodology, investigation, formal analysis. shan lin: writing  review & editing, validation, supervision, re- sources, data curation. mao ye: writing  original draft, software, methodology, formal analysis, data curation. simon slvsten: writing  review & editing, supervision, resources, project administration, funding acquisition. declaration of competing interest the authors declare that they have no known competing finan- cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. data availability data will be made available on request. acknowledgments this work was supported by the willis towers watson research network techngi-cdt scholarship. references [1] national fire protection association, nfpas fire loss statistics in the united states during 2021, 2021, https://risklogic.com/nfpas-fire-loss-statistics-in-the-united- states-during-2021/. [2] grenfell tower inquiry, grenfell tower inquiry: phase 1 report, 2019, https: //www.grenfelltowerinquiry.org.uk/. [3] g. purdy, iso 31000:2009 - setting a new standard for risk management: perspective, risk anal. 30 (6) (2010) 881886, http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j. 1539-6924.2010.01442.x. [4] l. wang, w. li, w. feng, r. yang, fire risk assessment for building operation and maintenance based on bim technology, build. environ. 205 (2021) 108188, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.buildenv.2021.108188. [5] j. kaiser, experiences of the gretener method, fire saf. j. 2 (3) (1980) 213222, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0379-7112(79)90021-3, url https://www. sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0379711279900213. [6] n. bnichou, d.t. yung, firecam: an equivalency and performance- compliance international conference on engineered fire protection design, san francisco, u.s.a., 2001, pp. 315323, collection: nrc publications archive. record identifier: ad528fdc-6105-48c2-9f9a-9499b6fada11. safety design, cost-effective tool fire for in: [7] z. zhang, l. ma, t. broyd, rule capture of automated compliance checking of building requirements: a review, proc. inst. civ. eng. - smart infrastruct. constr. 176 (4) (2023) 224238, http://dx.doi.org/10.1680/jsmic.23.00005. [8] s. malsane, j. matthews, s. lockley, p.e. love, d. greenwood, development of an object model for automated compliance checking, autom. constr. 49 (2015) 5158, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2014.10.004, url https:// www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s0926580514002155. [9] l. jiang, j. shi, c. wang, multi-ontology fusion and rule development to facilitate automated code compliance checking using bim and rule-based reasoning, adv. eng. inform. 51 (2022) 101449, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2021.101449, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034621002019. [10] i. fitkau, t. hartmann, an ontology-based approach of automatic compli- ance checking for structural fire safety requirements, adv. eng. inform. 59 (2024) 102314, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2023.102314, url https://www. sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034623004421. 17 [11] j.c.p. cheng, k. chen, p.k.y. wong, w. chen, c.t. li, graph-based network generation and cctv processing techniques for fire evacuation, build. res. inf. 49 (2) (2021) 179196, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09613218.2020.1759397. [12] n. li, g. huang, h. jiang, x. gao, l. zhou, fire propagation-driven dynamic intelligent evacuation model in multifloor hybrid buildings, adv. eng. inform. 57 (2023) 102097, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2023.102097, url https:// www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034623002252. [13] c. maluk, m. woodrow, j.l. torero, the potential of integrating fire safety in modern building design, fire saf. j. 88 (2017) 104112, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1016/j.firesaf.2016.12.006. [14] e.s. mazzucchelli, p. rigone, b.j. de la fuente, p. giussani, fire safety faade design and modelling: the case study of the libeskind tower in milan, j. facade des. eng. 8 (1) (2020) 2142, http://dx.doi.org/10.7480/jfde.2020.1.4703. [15] m. sabbaghzadeh, m. sheikhkhoshkar, s. talebi, m. rezazadeh, m. raste- gar moghaddam, m. khanzadi, a bim-based solution for the optimisation of fire safety measures in the building design, sustainability 14 (3) (2022) url https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/14/3/1626. [16] p. olsson, m. regan, a comparison between actual and predicted evac- uation times, saf. sci. 38 (2) (2001) 139145, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/ s0925-7535(00)00064-3, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ pii/s0925753500000643. [17] ministry of public security of the peoples republic of china, gb50016-2014 building fire protection design standard, china planning publishing house, beijing, 2014, section 5.5.17. [18] federal institute for occupational safety and health (baua), general fire pre- vention measures - basic requirements, 2023, url www.baua.de/emkg. version: march 2023. [19] the building regulations 2010, approved document b (fire safety) vol- ume 1: dwellings, 2019 edition incorporating 2020 and 2022 amendments, 2019, url https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/fire-safety-approved- document-b. (accessed 16 october 2023). [20] l. chen, m. ye, a. milne, j. hillier, f. oglesby, the scope for ai-augmented interpretation of building blueprints in commercial and industrial property insurance, 2022, pp. 136, arxiv. url https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.01671. [21] j. llads, j. lpez-krahe, e. mart, a system to understand hand-drawn floor plans using subgraph isomorphism and hough transform, mach. vis. appl. 10 (1997) 150158, http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s001380050068. [22] d. dori, w. liu, automated cad conversion with the machine drawing under- standing system: concepts, algorithms, and performance, ieee trans. syst. man cybern. part a 29 (1999) 411416, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/3468.769761. [23] t. henderson, l. swaminatha, symbolic pruning in a structural approach to engineering drawing analysis, in: seventh international conference on document analysis and recognition, 2003. proceedings, vol. 1, 2003, pp. 180184, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1109/icdar.2003.1227655. [24] r. tang, y. wang, d. cosker, w. li, automatic structural scene digitalization, plos one 12 (2017) http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0187513. [25] y. dehbi, n. gojayeva, a. pickert, j. haunert, l. plmer, room shapes and functional uses predicted from sparse data, isprs ann. photogramm., remote sens. spat. inf. sci. (2018) http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/isprs-annals-iv-4-33- 2018. [26] h.k. mewada, a.v. patel, j.p. chaudhari, k.k. mahant, a. vala, automatic room information retrieval and classification from floor plan using linear regression model, int. j. document anal. recognit. (ijdar) 23 (2020) 253266, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10032-020-00357-x. [27] a. paudel, r. dhakal, s. bhattarai, room classification on floor plan graphs using graph neural networks, 2021, arxiv. arxiv:2108.05947. url https://api. semanticscholar.org/corpusid:237048094. [28] g. hirasawa, s. matsumura, y. yamazaki, m. kataoka, knowledge and informa- tion processing with drawing objects in construction phase, comput. civ. build. eng. (1993) 129136, http://dx.doi.org/10.3130/aija.59.193_1. [29] t. lu, y. yang, r. yang, s. cai, knowledge extraction from structured engineer- ing drawings, in: 2008 fifth international conference on fuzzy systems and knowledge discovery, vol. 2, 2008, pp. 415419, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ fskd.2008.184. [30] p. schnfelder, f. stebel, n. andreou, m. knig, deep learning-based text floor plans, autom. constr. 157 detection and recognition on architectural (2024) 105156, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2023.105156, url https:// www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s0926580523004168. [31] c. liu, j. wu, p. kohli, y. furukawa, raster-to-vector: revisiting floorplan transformation, in: 2017 ieee international conference on computer vision, iccv, 2017, pp. 22142222, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/iccv.2017.241. [32] v. azizi, m. usman, h. zhou, p. faloutsos, m. kapadia, graph-based generative representation learning of semantically and behaviorally augmented floorplans, vis. comput. 38 (2020) 27852800, http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00371-021- 02155-w. [33] s. park, h. kim, 3dplannet: generating 3d models from 2d floor plan im- ages using ensemble methods, electronics (2021) http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/ electronics10222729. d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 [34] z. zhang, x. liu, c. li, h. wu, z. wen, vectorizing line drawings of arbitrary thickness via boundary-based topology reconstruction, comput. graph. forum 41 (2022) http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/cgf.14485. [35] australian building codes board, ncc 2019 volume one amendment 1, australian building codes board, australia, 2019, url https://ncc.abcb.gov. au/editions/2019-a1/ncc-2019-volume-one-amendment-1. (accessed 18 april 2024). [36] direzione centrale per la prevenzione e la sicurezza tecnica, codice di preven- zione incendi in inglese  beta release 3, ufficio per la prevenzione incendi ed il rischio industriale, italy, 2019, english version of the ministerial decree 3 august 2015 as amended by the ministerial decree 18 october 2019. [37] c. bashyal, a. mishra, p.s. aithal, fire safety compliance among hospital buildings: a case study from nepal-asia, - granthaalayah 10 (10) (2022) 3357, http://dx.doi.org/10.29121/granthaalayah.v10.i10.2022. 4827, url https://ssrn.com/abstract=4266770. int. j. res. [38] n. salleh, a.n. aras, n. norazman, s. kamaruzzaman, fire risk assessment of malaysia public hospital buildings, j. facil. manag. 21 (4) (2023) 635650, http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/jfm-11-2021-0138. [39] t. thevega, j. jayasinghe, d. robert, c. bandara, e. kandare, s. setunge, fire compliance of construction materials for building claddings: a critical review, constr. build. mater. 361 (2022) 129582, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. conbuildmat.2022.129582, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ pii/s095006182203238x. [40] f. xue, z. zhao, x. sun, m. fan, m. zhang, compliance checking on topological spatial relationships of building elements based on building information models and ontology, sustainability (2023) http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su151410901. [41] v. ma, u. villanueva, level of compliance by the bulacan state university with the fire and safety requirements of the law, glob. j. eng., technol. appl. sci. 8 (3) (2021) 038056, http://dx.doi.org/10.30574/gjeta.2021.8.3.0122. [42] a.v. zvyagintseva, s.a. sazonova, d.v. sysoev, verification of the construction and architectural component of the design of the fire protection regulations, iop conf. ser.: earth environ. sci. 988 (3) (2022) 032068, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1088/1755-1315/988/3/032068. [43] c. eastman, j. min lee, y. suk jeong, j. kook lee, automatic rule-based checking of building designs, autom. constr. 18 (8) (2009) 10111033, http:// dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2009.07.002, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/s0926580509001198. [44] j. choi, i. kim, development of an open bim-based legality system for building administration permission services, j. asian archit. build. eng. 14 (3) (2015) 577584, http://dx.doi.org/10.3130/jaabe.14.577. [45] l. khemlani, corenet e-plancheck: singapores automated code checking system, 2005, aecbytes, october. [46] d. conover, development and implementation of automated code compliance checking in the us, 2007, international code council. [47] j.-k. lee, j. lee, y.-s. jeong, h. sheward, p. sanguinetti, s. abdelmohsen, c.m. eastman, development of space database for automated building design review systems, autom. constr. 24 (2012) 203212. [48] t. bloch, m. katz, r. yosef, r. sacks, automated model checking for topologically complex code requirements - security room case study, in: proceedings of the 2019 european conference on computing in construction, in: computing in construction, vol. 1, european council on computing in construction, chania, greece, 2019, pp. 4855, http://dx.doi.org/10.35490/ec3.2019.157, url https: //ec-3.org/publications/conference/paper/?id=ec32019_157. [49] p. ghannad, y.-c. lee, j. dimyadi, w. solihin, automated bim data validation integrating open-standard schema with visual programming language, adv. eng. inform. 40 (2019) 1428, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2019.01.006, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034618304610. [50] t. beach, j. yeung, n. nisbet, y. rezgui, digital approaches to construction compliance checking: validating the suitability of an ecosystem approach to compliance checking, adv. eng. inform. 59 (2024) 102288, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.aei.2023.102288, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ pii/s1474034623004160. [51] j. zhang, n.m. el-gohary, integrating semantic nlp and logic reasoning into a unified system for fully-automated code checking, autom. constr. 73 (2017) 4557, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.08.027, url https:// www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s0926580516301819. [52] p. zhou, n. el-gohary, semantic information alignment of bims to computer- interpretable regulations using ontologies and deep learning, adv. eng. inform. 48 (2021) 101239, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2020.101239, url https:// www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034620302081. [53] r. zhang, n. el-gohary, natural language generation and deep learning for in- telligent building codes, adv. eng. inform. 52 (2022) 101557, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.aei.2022.101557, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ pii/s1474034622000313. [54] t. bloch, a. borrmann, p. pauwels, graph-based learning for automated code checking  exploring the application of graph neural networks for design review, adv. eng. inform. 58 (2023) 102137, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.aei.2023.102137, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ pii/s1474034623002653. [55] f. bosch, automated recognition of 3d cad model objects in laser scans and calculation of as-built dimensions for dimensional compliance control in construction, adv. eng. inform. 24 (1) (2010) 107118, http://dx.doi.org/10. informatics for cognitive robots. url https://www. 1016/j.aei.2009.08.006, sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034609000482. [56] m. nahangi, c.t. haas, automated 3d compliance checking in pipe spool fabrication, adv. eng. inform. 28 (4) (2014) 360369, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1016/j.aei.2014.04.001, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ s1474034614000305. [57] p. patlakas, a. livingstone, r. hairstans, g. neighbour, automatic code com- pliance with multi-dimensional data fitting in a bim context, adv. eng. inform. 38 (2018) 216231, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2018.07.002, url https:// www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s1474034618300880. [58] x. xue, j. zhang, part-of-speech tagging of building codes empowered by deep learning and transformational rules, adv. eng. inform. 47 (2021) 101235, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2020.101235, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/s1474034620302044. [59] f. bao, d.-m. yan, n.j. mitra, p. wonka, generating and exploring good building layouts, acm trans. graph. 32 (4) (2013) http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2461912. 2461977. [60] c.-h. peng, y.-l. yang, p. wonka, computing layouts with deformable templates, acm trans. graph. 33 (4) (2014) http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2601097.2601164. [61] y. zhou, y. wang, c. li, l. ding, c. wang, automatic generative design and optimization of hospital building layouts in consideration of public health emer- gency, eng., constr. archit. manag. (2022) http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/ecam-08- 2022-0757. [62] w. huang, h. zheng, architectural drawings recognition and generation through machine learning, in: recalibration on imprecision and infidelity - proceedings of the 38th annual conference of the association for computer aided design in architecture, acadia 2018, 2018, pp. 156165. [63] d. sharma, n. gupta, c. chattopadhyay, s. mehta, a novel feature transform framework using deep neural network for multimodal floor plan retrieval, int. j. doc. anal. recognit. 22 (4) (2019) 417429, http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10032- 019-00340-1. [64] n. nauata, k.h. chang, c.y. cheng, g. mori, y. furukawa, house-gan: re- lational generative adversarial networks for graph-constrained house layout generation, in: lecture notes in computer science (including subseries lecture notes in artificial intelligence and lecture notes in bioinformatics), vol. 12346 lncs, 2020, pp. 162177, http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58452-8_10. [65] f. jiang, j. ma, c.j. webster, x. li, v.j. gan, building layout generation using site-embedded gan model, autom. constr. 151 (2023) 104888, http:// dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2023.104888, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/s0926580523001486. [66] j. ho, a. jain, p. abbeel, denoising diffusion probabilistic models, adv. neural inf. process. syst. 33 (2020) 68406851. [67] p. dhariwal, a. nichol, diffusion models beat gans on image synthesis, adv. neural inf. process. syst. 34 (2021) 87808794. [68] m.a. shabani, s. hosseini, y. furukawa, housediffusion: vector floorplan generation via a diffusion model with discrete and continuous denoising, in: proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, cvpr, 2023, pp. 54665475. [69] w. wu, x.-m. fu, r. tang, y. wang, y. qi, l. liu, data-driven interior plan generation for residential buildings, acm trans. graph. 38 (6) (2019) 112. [70] j. canny, a computational approach to edge detection, ieee trans. pattern anal. mach. intell. pami-8 (6) (1986) 679698, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/tpami. 1986.4767851. [71] a. reza, realization of the contrast limited adaptive histogram equalization (clahe) for real-time image enhancement, j. vlsi signal process.-syst. signal, image, video technol. 38 (2004) 3544, http://dx.doi.org/10.1023/b:vlsi. 0000028532.53893.82. [72] m. ye, l. chen, a. milne, j. hillier, s. slvsten, gan-enabled framework for fire risk assessment and mitigation of building blueprints, in: proceedings of the 30th eg-ice: international conference on intelligent computing in engineering, lon- don, united kingdom, 2023, url https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/construction/ sites/bartlett_construction/files/9082.pdf. [73] en 13501-2: fire classification of construction products and building elements - part 2: classification using data from fire resistance tests, excluding ventilation services, 2016, european standard. european committee for standardization. [74] e.w. dijkstra, a note on two problems in connexion with graphs, numerische math. 1 (1) (1959) 269271. [75] a. vaswani, n. shazeer, n. parmar, j. uszkoreit, l. jones, a.n. gomez, . kaiser, i. polosukhin, attention is all you need, adv. neural inf. process. syst. 30 (2017). [76] o. ronneberger, p. fischer, t. brox, u-net: convolutional networks for biomed- ical image segmentation, in: n. navab, j. hornegger, w.m. wells, a.f. frangi (eds.), medical image computing and computer-assisted intervention, miccai 2015, springer international publishing, cham, 2015, pp. 234241. [77] imageio documentation, 2024, https://imageio.github.io/. (accessed 18 april 2024). 18 d. chen et al. advanced engineering informatics 62 (2024) 102614 [78] j.d. hunter, matplotlib: a 2d graphics environment, comput. sci. eng. 9 (3) (2007) 9095. [79] a. hagberg, p. swart, d. s. chult, exploring network structure, dynamics, and function using networkx, tech. rep., los alamos national lab.(lanl), los alamos, nm (united states), 2008. [80] c.r. harris, k.j. millman, s.j. van der walt, r. gommers, p. virtanen, d. cournapeau, e. wieser, j. taylor, s. berg, n.j. smith, r. kern, m. picus, s. hoyer, m.h. van kerkwijk, m. brett, a. haldane, j. fernndez del ro, m. wiebe, p. peterson, p. grard-marchant, k. sheppard, t. reddy, w. weckesser, h. abbasi, c. gohlke, t.e. oliphant, array programming with numpy, nature 585 (2020) 357362, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2649-2. [81] g. bradski, the opencv library, dr. dobbs j. softw. tools (2000). [82] a. clark, pillow (pil fork) documentation, 2015, url https://buildmedia. readthedocs.org/media/pdf/pillow/latest/pillow.pdf. [83] pygraphviz documentation, 2024, https://pygraphviz.github.io/documentation/ stable/. (accessed 18 april 2024). [84] s. van der walt, j.l. schnberger, j. nunez-iglesias, f. boulogne, j.d. warner, n. yager, e. gouillart, t. yu, scikit-image: image processing in python, peerj 2 (2014) e453. [85] p. virtanen, r. gommers, t.e. oliphant, m. haberland, t. reddy, d. cournapeau, e. burovski, p. peterson, w. weckesser, j. bright, s.j. van der walt, m. brett, j. wilson, k.j. millman, n. mayorov, a.r.j. nelson, e. jones, r. kern, e. larson, c.j. carey, . polat, y. feng, e.w. moore, j. vanderplas, d. laxalde, j. perktold, r. cimrman, i. henriksen, e.a. quintero, c.r. harris, a.m. archibald, a.h. ribeiro, f. pedregosa, p. van mulbregt, scipy 1.0 contributors, scipy 1.0: fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in python, nature methods 17 (2020) 261272, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41592-019-0686-2. [86] tesseract-ocr documentation, 2024, https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract. (accessed 18 april 2024). [87] pytesseract documentation, 2024, https://pypi.org/project/pytesseract/. (ac- cessed 18 april 2024). [88] a. paszke, s. gross, f. massa, a. lerer, j. bradbury, g. chanan, t. killeen, z. lin, n. gimelshein, l. antiga, a. desmaison, a. kopf, e. yang, z. devito, m. raison, a. tejani, s. chilamkurthy, b. steiner, l. fang, j. bai, s. chin- tala, pytorch: an imperative style, high-performance deep learning library, in: advances in neural information processing systems 32, curran associates, inc., 2019, pp. 80248035, url http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch- an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf. [89] d.p. kingma, j. ba, adam: a method for stochastic optimization, in: y. bengio, y. lecun (eds.), 3rd international conference on learning representations, iclr 2015, san diego, ca, usa, may 7-9, 2015, conference track proceedings, 2015, url http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980. [90] c. boncelet, chapter 7 - in: a. bovik (ed.), the image noise models, essential guide to image processing, academic press, boston, 2009, pp. 143167, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/b978-0-12-374457-9.00007-x, url https: //www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/b978012374457900007x. [91] f. dong, y. chen, d.-x. kong, b. yang, salt and pepper noise removal based on an approximation of l0 norm, comput. math. appl. 70 (5) (2015) 789804, http:// dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.camwa.2015.05.026, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/s0898122115002710. [92] d.r. bull, f. zhang, chapter 4 - digital picture formats and representations, in: d.r. bull, f. zhang (eds.), intelligent image and video compression (second edition), second ed., academic press, oxford, 2021, pp. 107142, http://dx. doi.org/10.1016/b978-0-12-820353-8.00013-x, url https://www.sciencedirect. com/science/article/pii/b978012820353800013x. [93] c.-h. huang, s.-h. hsieh, predicting bim labor cost with random forest and simple linear regression, autom. constr. 118 (2020) 103280, http:// dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103280, url https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/s0926580519315559. [94] y. li, w. li, s. tang, w. darwish, y. hu, w. chen, automatic indoor as-built building information models generation by using low-cost rgb-d sensors, sensors 20 (1) (2020) http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s20010293, url https://www.mdpi. com/1424-8220/20/1/293. 19

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
D. Chen et al. 2024_page1_img1.png
D. Chen et al. 2024_page1_img2.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page1_img3.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page7_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page7_img2.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page8_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page8_img2.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page10_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page10_img2.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page11_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page12_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page12_img2.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page12_img3.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page13_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page13_img2.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page14_img1.jpeg
D. Chen et al. 2024_page16_img1.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page1_img2.jpeg --- advanced engineering informatics 1 ene --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page1_img3.jpeg --- ramee ag fa re ees --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page7_img1.jpeg --- step 3 al-enabled contour detection poye . s ruler detection building fire risk 5 mitigation r s 3 contour ealibrati gs . were . 5 ontour calibration pixel counting . initialise layout with prepare original 5 3 gaussian noise e s blueprints es 33 f a a 3 i aie ay contour extraction es by room counting 3 building room mask . , e generation . ee . o detect the blueprint . . g area calculation bs contour 2s ws . fn a connectivity guided segmentation 2 i oe s2 denoising i spi building metadat a 7 optical character muicing metadata resize the blueprint 5 iti aggregation 5 filtering and recog see aaa of seale s recog von ray optumisation ss ie pa es oo , zz es construct building g denoise and 2s room function 33 connectivity graph hd . ec detection ge decrease the size ee 55 e 2e evacuation route a room position analysis s pass z ol multifaceted risk ne f ted fi rise s morphological resize the blueprint a factors aggregation utomate re ss. processing fa scale oa ssesement bn 4 fire door rescue exit oy ge . . step 1.1 polymorphic 5 building fire risk blueprint standardisation a smoke vent window factors collection s al z arm sprinkler oa system step 2 automated end step 1.2 al ted building fire risk ep te. abaugmente assessment blueprint interpretation --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page7_img2.jpeg --- e r . i ai a 4 4 4 resizing denoising size binarization colour reduction inversion --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page8_img1.jpeg --- polymorphic blueprint vectorised floorplan es is. we blueprint metadata 4 . sroa 2ied sana ren ire safety facilities f --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page8_img2.jpeg --- en meee rernrer reer eee eee ees pea a - 2 ws . to gy dijkstras to o de,.ej 4 1 algorithm 4a me i 3,49 1 ry l , cy e toe.6, o tol ed ay tolle . construct room connectivity mtd evacuation route - po graph using ou method analysis for habitable rooms vectorised floorplan beene terre eee eee eeeee eee cee secccee crocs ccccce t room type fire safety ..- .2--2--- eee eee na identification facilities mo ex connecteae ves op i maximum travel distance 10.03m . 7 protected entrance re 30 yes material structural , habitable rooms have direct fd access yes, distance 4.11m specifications dimensions oy 1 doorway ambiguities no 5 , 4 rule-based all rooms connected yes fire risk factors collection blueprint metadata 4 conditional evaluation , building blueprint fire risk factors aggregation --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page10_img1.jpeg --- y without inner mid evacutaion protected all room fire doors ri distance entrance passway to exit distance less y oms less than 9m raw than sn blueprint fire risk hor at 4.5m factors collection or higher n rooms without opening to exit hall or escape window n --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page10_img2.jpeg --- 1 input condition al-enabled blueprint redesign using deep generative models t ify 7 pegbr-1 by, g l l ila a , f i , - 1 q 4 a wa l 14 i i 4 a oo gn be 4 a connectiviyg 1 4 br denoising u-net 9 br-4 xf 1 b 14 14 l 1 , nitialise b with filtering and room identification 1 gaussian noise start optimisation material pie - -- - - ee ee re i fei pir rrr rrr rrr specification 1 ve fail 1 blueprint metadata automated buitding i oe fire risk assessment , r a, pass 1 di ow ca jdenaising step crossattention siwich skio connection i mitigation solution --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page11_img1.jpeg --- step 1 automated polymorphic step 2 automated budding fire step 3 al-enabled budding fe building biveprint interpretation risk assessment tsk maigalon real bufiding biveprint raw rplan dataset wn , alot blueprint processed ......., processed i ee metadata rplan rplan at q . semi-synthetic dataset public rplan dataset . preprocess to uniform vectonsed format augment the processed rpl4an floorplans with metadata --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page12_img1.jpeg --- room not y 3.94 connected sspaaaing 4 c corresp jon pe xf connected yes maximuin travel distance 10.51m irrotected entrance re 30 yes habitable rooms have direct fd access no, dislance 3.79n automated fire risk doorway ambiquities no assessment all rooms connected no fire risk factors collection --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page12_img2.jpeg --- id correspone 7 mtd sm, room 2 protected in o 26 entrance, ae 3. direct fire 6 om door access - 58 ea rs xit connected, yes maximum travel distance 10.03m protected entrance re 30 yes. habitable rooms have direct pd access yes, distance 4 lin automated fire risk doorway ambiquities no - assessment all rooms connected yes fire risk factors collection --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page12_img3.jpeg --- . a y mtd 91m, , lc. 7 no protected por o, 5 entrance bag maximum travel distance 9.34m protected entrance rei 30 no habitable rooms have direct fd access yes, distance 5.89 automated fire risk doorway ambiguities no aasessment ri rome connected yes fire risk factors collection --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page13_img1.jpeg --- ee e 4loh os lo steals os tox ol dg 2 --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page13_img2.jpeg --- 3 d fesn dg ip. fees ba te. rrr yy y fee ee taek eed - een ec leak hemor leah sack --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page14_img1.jpeg --- 100 ee 95 te ag ey ose 90 44 is ns im 85 j % 80 x i 75 gaussian noise salt and pepper noise y 7% 37 34 31 28 25 22 19 16 13 psnr db --- text from d. chen et al. 2024_page16_img1.jpeg --- l ss ras 7% 7 7 conference ns a es ok ronee sune 0 or a aan ore . office of eice i of eee ae a ri wer ae 444 a , an tor office a is, meee is sune rot mf see fy far we rm t- 3 un nn dl a or ream sune e sunte e at a 5 b ws 4 oe 4 gee , - , acrice ae eee ls i cil pa on 4, 2 1 l, eye i off 7e , ead ore - j ty . ss ie recep i j ss cc i aa lv es ee ell a a 3a at sf an
