==== TEXT ====
llm-funcmapper: function identification for interpreting complex clauses in building codes via llm zhe zheng1, ke-yin chen1, xin-yu cao2, xin-zheng lu1, jia-rui lin1,* 1. department of civil engineering, tsinghua university, beijing, 100084, china 2. school of civil engineering, yantai university, yantai 264005, china *corresponding author, e-mail: lin611@tsinghua.edu.cn abstract: as a vital stage of automated rule checking (arc), rule interpretation of regulatory texts requires considerable effort. however, interpreting regulatory clauses with implicit properties or complex computational logic is still challenging due to the lack of domain knowledge and limited expressibility of conventional logic representations. thus, llm-funcmapper, an approach to identifying predefined functions needed to interpret various regulatory clauses based on the large language model (llm), is proposed. first, by systematically analysis of building codes, a series of atomic functions are defined to capture shared computational logics of implicit properties and complex constraints, creating a database of common blocks for interpreting regulatory clauses. then, a prompt template with the chain of thought is developed and further enhanced with a classification-based tuning strategy, to enable common llms for effective function identification. finally, the proposed approach is validated with statistical analysis, experiments, and proof of concept. statistical analysis reveals a long-tail distribution and high expressibility of the developed function database, with which almost 100% of computer-processible clauses can be interpreted and represented as computer-executable codes. experiments show that llm- funcmapper achieve promising results in identifying relevant predefined functions for rule interpretation. further proof of concept in automated rule interpretation also demonstrates the possibility of llm-funcmapper in interpreting complex regulatory clauses. to the best of our knowledge, this study is the first attempt to introduce llm for understanding and interpreting complex regulatory clauses, which may shed light on further adoption of llm in the construction domain. keywords: automated rule checking (arc); rule interpretation; natural language processing (nlp); large language model (llm); atomic functions; prompt engineering 1 1 introduction buildings in the entire lifecycle including design, construction, operation, and maintenance stages must comply with the requirements of the various building codes to ensure safety, sustainability, and comfort (eastman et al., 2009; soliman-junior et al.,2021). however, the manual checking process is inadequate for dealing with the massive and complex building codes, as it is time-consuming, costly, and error-prone (zhang and el-gohary, 2017; xu and cai, 2021). to enhance the efficiency and reliability of rule checking, automated rule checking (arc) has been widely studied in the architectural, engineering, and construction (aec) field over the past decades (zhong et al., 2020). most of the existing arc systems still require extensive manual work for rule interpretation and rule input (nawari, 2020). for example, both the first rule checking system corenet, and the widely adopted solibri model checker (smc) (eastman et al., 2009) employ hard-coded rules and rely on manual interpretation of regulatory clauses. however, this method entails embedding the regulatory clauses directly in the rule engine, and any changes in the design rules require manual modifications by the domain experts, which limits its adaptability to different domains. thus, it is often referred to as black- box approaches (dimyadi et al., 2016; nawari, 2019, 2020). therefore, the rule interpretation stage is considered to be the most important and complex stage in the process of achieving fully automated rule checking (ismail et al., 2017). semi-automated rule interpretation methods and natural language processing (nlp)-based automated rule interpretation methods have been extensively studied recently (zheng et al., 2022a; zhou et al., 2022). typical semi-automated rule interpretation methods include labeling-based methods (beach et al., 2015; hjelseth and nisbet, 2011), and conceptual graph-based methods (solihin and eastman, 2016). although these studies have advanced the development of arc, these methods can only handle text at a coarse-grained level and require manually labeling a large number of regulatory documents and generating pseudocodes from them (nawari, 2019). therefore, nlp techniques are employed by researchers to explore automated rule interpretation methods. for example, zhang and el- gohary (zhang and el-gohary, 2016, 2015; xu and cai, 2021) developed algorithms to automatically extract information from the international building code (ibc) based on regular expression rules. lstm-based methods are proposed to automatically extract semantic elements (moon et al., 2022) and semantic relations between the elements (zhang and el-gohary, 2022) to achieve rule interpretation. zhou et al. (zhou et al., 2022) proposed an nlp and context-free grammar (cfg)-based rule interpretation framework to transform clauses into syntax trees that can represent hierarchies and relations of the semantic elements. however, most of the existing automated rule interpretation methods mainly focused on simple sentences and can only check the explicitly stored attributes and entity references, which fall into class1 according to the rule complexity defined by solihin and eastman (solihin and eastman, 2015). this is mainly because the natural language expressions of building codes entail a large amount of implicit domain knowledge. interpreting some of the clauses requires complex computational logics including mathematical and geometric operations. however, first-order logics that are often used for automated rule interpretation, such as the horn clause (zhang and el-gohary, 2016), 2 b-prolog representation (zhang and el-gohary, 2015; zhou and el-gohary, 2017), or the deontic logic (dl) clauses (xu and cai, 2021), are still limited in expressibility (kuske and schweikardt, 2017). these logic representation methods struggle to describe the clauses with implicit properties that demand complex computation logics (kuske and schweikardt, 2017; zheng et al., 2022a). for instance, consider the clause: "adjacent nursing units in hospitals shall be separated by fire partition walls with a fire resistance rating of not less than 2.00h (from chinese building code)". because some of the topology and geometry information are not explicitly stored in models and should be derived, it would be challenging to check the adjacency relationship between nursing units and to accurately locate the position of the partition wall. therefore, the expression of complex computational logics needs further exploration. two types of approaches, domain-specific language (dsl) and high-level function database respectively, have been introduced to represent the complex computational logic within clauses. the former includes bera (the building environment rule and analysis) (daum and borrmann, 2015; lee and eastman, 2019), ql4bim (query language for building information models) (mazairac and beetz, 2013), and bimsparql (zhang et al., 2018), which define new query languages or extend existing ones to represent complex computational process required for checking various regulatory clauses. while another attempt is developing databases of high-level functions to represent complex computational logics in building codes, for example, lee et al. (2023) and uhm et al. (2015) 's work in interpreting korea building codes. however, within the above methods, rule interpretation still highly depends on extensive manual efforts, which is time-consuming and far from automated rule interpretation. because only the professionals possessing extensive expertise are able to choose the proper function from a vast array of predefined dsls or function databases according to the semantics of clauses. manual interpretation based on dsls or function database demands high proficiency, posing challenges to automated rule interpretation. additionally, function databases are in their nascent stages, and have only been explored in dealing with korean building codes. further research is still needed to explore the adaptability of similar approaches to building codes in other countries to facilitate automated rule interpretation. therefore, to address the above problems, this work presents llm-funcmapper, a method to identify predefined functions needed to interpret various regulatory clauses based on the large language model (llm). the method consists of the establishment of atomic functions to capture shared computational logic and domain-specific prompt engineering to enable llms in function identification. the remainder of this paper is organized as follows. section 2 reviews the related studies and highlights the potential research gaps. section 3 illustrates the methodology of llm-funcmapper. section 4 conducts descriptive and statistical analyses of the proposed atomic function database. section 5 conducts experiments and a proof of concept to show the applicability of the proposed llm- funcmapper in atomic function identification and rule interpretation. section 6 highlights the insights of this research and also summarizes potential limitations. finally, section 7 concludes this research. 2 related work 2.1 automated rule interpretation 3 the rule interpretation stage is considered to be the most important and complex stage in the process of achieving fully automated rule checking (ismail et al., 2017). a number of researchers have explored semi-automated rule interpretation methods and automated rule interpretation methods. the semi-automated rule interpretation method aims to formalize the clauses and thus simplify the rule interpretation process. an extensible markup language (xml)-based document representation method is proposed to help user understanding and computational analysis (lau and law, 2004). the rase method (hjelseth and nisbet, 2011) can process building codes with mark-up based on the four operators to generate testable logical statements on different types of regulatory clauses. beach et al. (beach et al., 2015) extended the rase method by mapping the documents labeled by the rase method to the semantic web rule language (swrl). solihin and eastman (solihin and eastman, 2016) introduced the conceptual graph (cg) to represent the building codes to facilitate rule interpretation. although these methods achieve semi-automated rule interpretation and improve the accuracy of rule interpretation, they can only process text at a coarse-grained level and involve a lot of manual work. the nlp-based automated rule interpretation method aims to completely eliminate the reliance on manual work, using nlp techniques to enable computers to handle the semantics of natural language from building codes and then complete rule interpretation (song et al., 2018). zhang and ei-gohary proposed methods to capture syntactic features and semantic features using rule-based nlp techniques and domain ontology to support the automated extraction of information from regulatory documents (zhang and el-gohary, 2015; zhang and el-gohary, 2016). word embedding associated with deep learning models is utilized to filter irrelevant sentences in the korean building code to support automated rule interpretation (song et al., 2018). lstm-based methods are proposed to automatically extract semantic elements (moon et al., 2022) and semantic relations between the elements (zhang and el- gohary, 2022) to achieve rule interpretation. zhou et al. used deep learning models (bert) for semantic annotation, and proposed syntactic parsing methods that can automatically convert the input token into rule check tree (rctree) (zhou et al., 2022). based on this, zheng et al. proposed an unsupervised learning-based semantic alignment method and a knowledge-based conflict resolution to improve the accuracy of rule interpretation (zheng et al., 2022a). however, most of the existing automated rule interpretation methods mainly focused on simple sentences and can only check the explicitly stored attributes and entity references. this is mainly because the natural language expressions of building codes entail a large amount of implicit domain knowledge. interpreting some of the clauses requires complex computational logic including mathematical and geometric operations. however, the widely- used first-order logic struggles to describe the clauses with implicit properties that demand complex computation logic (kuske and schweikardt, 2017; zheng et al., 2022a). 2.2 computational logic representation the research on the representation of computational logic includes two main types, which are dsl and high-level function databases, as summarized in table 1. to reduce the difficulty of building a rule database for automated rule checking systems, dsl, simpler to understand than the general purpose language (gpl), has been extensively studied (lee et al., 2015; fowler, 2010). dsl usually contains some representation of complex computational logic to 4 facilitate rule interpretation (mazairac and beetz, 2013). lee et al. proposed bera, which enabled the calculation and rule analysis of partially complex properties and improved the efficiency of rule definition, analysis, and checking (lee et al., 2015; lee and eastman, 2019). daum and borrmann proposed the ql4bim language provides metric, directional, and topological operators to express clauses with qualitative spatial semantics (daum and borrmann, 2013, 2014, 2015). zhang et al. proposed bimsparql, a method for extending domain-specific functions in sparql to apply spatial and logical reasoning to simplify writing queries and enhance query abilities (zhang et al., 2018). sydora and stroulia proposed a domain-specific language for computationally representing building interior design rules (sydora and stroulia, 2020). in addition to dsl, very few studies focused on building databases of high-level functions to represent the complex computational logic embedded in clauses. typical examples are the function database based on rfps for building designs in south korea (uhm et al., 2015) and the function database based on the korean building act (lee et al., 2023). the functions in the database support complex computational logic such as topological checking, complex geometric checking, complex entity relationship checking, and so on. although some complex computational logic embedded in clauses can be expressed using dsl and function databases, these methods have high learning costs (mernik et al., 2005) and required human efforts (zhou et al., 2022). besides, some dsls only focused on partially computational logic (e.g., only topology or geometry checking), which restricted its application. the function databases usually contain comprehensive functions for most kinds of computational logic within the target codes. however, the existing studies on function databases mainly focus on korean building codes. the applicability and expressibility of the aforementioned function database in building codes in other countries still need to be studied. table 1 computational logic representation methods reference representation methods country lee et al., 2015; lee and eastman, 2019 bera zhang et al., 2018 bimsparql usa usa daum and borrmann, 2015 ql4bim germany sydora and stroulia, 2020 domain language for interior design canada uhm et al., 2015 lee et al., 2023 high-level function database high-level function database korea korea 2.3 function identification in the rule interpreting stage, domain experts may spend lots of time selecting the most appropriate functions for each clause from the vast of functions provided by the function database. thus, the automated function identification method for clauses is urgently needed. however, few studies focused on function identification methods in the aec domain. the function identification task is similar to the application programming interface (api) task recommendation in the computer science domain. a number of studies have been devoted to improving the automated recognition of apis (peng et al., 2023), 5 and the recommendation of apis has gone through the following stages. initially, models based on probability and statistics (e.g., n-gram) or data mining methods (e.g., frequent pattern mining) were used to learn api usage patterns from large-scale codebases. and then these models and patterns can be used to recommend apis. however, these approaches cannot take semantic information into account, and cannot handle multiple or cross-database cases (nguyen et al., 2016; zhong et al., 2009). with the development of deep learning, some research efforts have devoted to use deep neural network (e.g., rnn, lstm, transformer, bert, etc.) to model api sequences. these methods can improve the accuracy and generalization of api recommendations with superior performance (peng et al., 2023). in the last two years, due to the worldwide popularity of llms, the researchers have started to explore the adoption of llms (e.g., chatgpt (openai, 2022), llama (touvron et al., 2023)) for api recommendation. for example, patil et al. (patil et al., 2023) proposed a finetuned llama-based model gorilla, which surpasses the performance of gpt-4 in api calls in massive dataset tests and can also support real-time updates of documents, improving the accuracy and reliability of api calls. rule interpretation based on the developed function database requires a large amount of domain knowledge and is a complex process, i.e., there is a certain learning cost (mernik et al., 2005). therefore, this work aims to propose an automated function identification method via llms to reduce the learning cost of using function database for automated rule interpretation. 2.4 research gaps although lots of efforts have been made to represent complex computational logic within clauses for automated rule interpretation, there are still some limitations in the following three main aspects. first, most of the existing automated rule interpretation methods can only analyze and interpret simple clauses. second, the studies on representing complex computational logic mainly include dsls and high-level function databases. within the above methods, rule interpretation still highly depends on extensive manual efforts, which is time-consuming and far from automated rule interpretation. and manual interpretation based on dsls or function database demands high proficiency, posing challenges to automated rule interpretation. third, function databases are in their nascent stages, and have only been explored in dealing with korean building codes. further research is necessary to explore the adaptability of similar approaches to building codes in other countries to facilitate automated rule interpretation. therefore, this work presents llm-funcmapper, a method to identify predefined functions needed to interpret various regulatory clauses based on the llms. the method consists of the atomic functions database and domain-specific prompt engineering to enable llms in function identification. 3 methodology a large number of clauses with complex computational logic rely on implicit data reasoning and are difficult to express with plain logic (e.g., description logic and first-order logic). to facilitate the automated interpretation of these complex clauses, this work proposes llm-funcmapper, an approach 6 to identifying predefined functions needed to interpret various regulatory clauses based on llms. the proposed llm-funcmapper comprises two key components: the atomic function database to capture shared computational logics of implicit properties and complex constraints, and the domain-specific prompt engineering for function identification based on llm. then the effectiveness of the proposed methods is validated using several statistical analyses, experiments, and proof of concept, as the workflow illustrated in fig.1. fig. 1 the workflow of this study the construction of the atomic function database aims to identify and explicitly define atomic functions within the clauses, thereby representing and expressing the complex computational logic and serving as the foundational blocks for interpreting regulatory clauses. this process involves two main steps. the first step data acquisition and preprocessing (section 3.1.1) aims to collect relevant clauses and perform necessary preprocessing including sentence splitting, table-format clauses conversion, and filtering of non-computer-processable clauses. the second step function extraction and database establishment (section 3.1.2) is performed to systematically analyze the preprocessed clauses and then extract atomic functions, thereby establishing the function database. the domain-specific prompt engineering for llm-based function identification aims to recommend the most relevant atomic functions from the database for each clause to be interpreted, reducing the time and effort required for domain experts in finding the most suitable functions. to realize this, several llms are evaluated, a domain-specific prompt template with the chain of thought (cot) is designed, and the classification-based tuning strategy is proposed, which are illustrated in detail in section 3.2. in the validation stage, descriptive and statistical analyses are conducted to validate the expressibility of the function database (section 4). then, the performances of the proposed llm-based atomic function identification method are thoroughly examined via two experiments (section 5.1). finally, a rule checking of an actual plant is conducted as a proof of concept to validate the effectiveness of the proposed method in arc (section 5.2). 7 validationdescriptive and statistical analysis experiments and proof of conceptllm-based functionidentificationfunction database development123data acquisition andpreprocessingfunction extraction and database establishmentprompt engineeringlarge language model (llm)pytorchchatgpt&gpt4numpytransformersantlr4claudeifcopenshell to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed approach, the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014), one of the most extensively used codes in china, is chosen as an example. clauses and tables from gb 50016-2014 (gb 50016-2014) is extracted and analyzed in this study. 3.1 development of atomic function database 3.1.1 data acquisition and preprocessing step 1: data acquisition for the purpose of this research, chapters 3, 4, and 5 of the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014) have been chosen. these chapters cover regulations related to warehouses and plants (chapter 3), storage areas and combustible material storage areas (chapter 4), and civil buildings (chapter 5). the selected clauses within these chapters encompass complex requirements, such as building fire resistance rating, the distance of fire separation, evacuation distance, and plane layout. these requirements pose challenges in terms of direct description using the first-order logics. detailed information on the collected data is illustrated in section 4.1. step 2: data preprocessing preprocessing includes sentence splitting, tabular clauses converted into textual clauses, and non- computer-processable clause filtering. sentence splitting aims to break down long clauses that contain multiple design requirements into short clauses that contain a single design requirement. after splitting each clause contains complete elements for checking, including the objects to be checked, the required constraints and conditions for checking, and the specific requirements of the objects. then, tabular clauses are then converted into the textual format that is expressed in natural language. before the tables, some clauses typically define the unified or similar objects to be checked. then, the table contents contain specific requirements under different conditions. hence, it is necessary to combine the description before the table and the requirements in the table to form a short sentence with a complete structure that enables a computer to interpret it. after clause splitting and conversion, the non-computer- processable clause filtering aims to identify and filter out sentences that are not easily interpreted by a computer. non-computer-processable sentences are those that require additional guidelines for a machine to determine whether they are "satisfied" or "failed" (uhm et al., 2015). only computer- processable sentences are retained for further analysis. the non-computer-processable clauses primarily fall into the following three types: (1) definitive clauses. these clauses do not have requirements on objects but serve to introduce the definition or category of the objects. e.g. the width of evacuation walkways, stairs, doors, and safety exits in theaters, cinemas, auditoriums, gymnasiums, and other places shall comply with relevant regulations (in chinese). (2) qualitative clauses that require subjective judgment. the requirements contained in these clauses have vague words and lack clear standards. it needs to be evaluated and analyzed by domain experts to confirm whether the design is satisfactory or not; e.g. placing the civil buildings near the factory buildings is not recommended (in chinese). "near" here lacks a clear definition and is difficult for a computer to check. 8 (3) clauses with external references. e.g. other fire protection design should comply with the chinese code for fire protection design of thermal power plants and substations (gb 50229) and other standards. (in chinese). 3.1.2 function extraction and database establishment after data preprocessing, to facilitate sentence analysis, this work adopts the nlp-cfg-based semantic labeling and parsing method (zhou et al., 2022; zheng et al., 2022a), to convert the textual clauses into a syntax tree format. the syntax tree structure provides a clearer insight into the logic of clauses. it highlights the objects, attributes, and conditions, aiding in subsequent sentence analysis and atomic function extraction, as shown in fig 2. if the identified phrase can be matched to a corresponding ifc object, it is filtered out; otherwise, the phrase is added to the candidates for further analysis and atomic function extraction. fig. 2 using the semantic labeling and parsing tool to assist atomic function extraction the extraction of atomic functions hinges on determining the function's inputs and outputs based on the candidate phrases. the input parameters of the function include the attributions explicitly stored in the constrained object. the outputs represent the results calculated based on the input parameters. note that different types of objects have different attributes and expressions of attributes, for example, the ifcspace and the ifcbeam contain different attributes. when the types of the function's input parameters are not clearly defined, too generalized inputs can pose function implementation challenges. hence, to define the input parameters of a function, it becomes crucial to classify the function's inputs, 9 the number of safety exits for each fire protection zone shall not be less than 2. (translated from chinese)semantic labelingparsingifc concepts and relationsifcspaceatomic function candidatesnot exist in ifc and need calculationcandidate phrase 1candidate phrase 2candidate phrase 3candidate phrase 4 grouping objects with similar attributes into corresponding categories. thus, the establishment of the atomic functions database involves two essential steps: categorize the objects to be checked and extraction of atomic functions for rule checking. categorize the objects to be checked aims to identify the constrained objects in the clauses, and subsequently merge and summarize their categories. these objects serve as the parameters of atomic functions. atomic function extraction aims to identify the functions utilized in the clauses. then, we define and record the unique functions to form the function database. step 1: classifying the objects to be checked the objects are categorized into five categories including building, space, element, system and equipment, and goods considering the compatibility with ifc (iso 16739-1: 2018) and standard for building information modeling semantic data dictionary (building fascicule) (sjgxxx-2023). the term building, space, and element are equivalent to ifcbuilding, ifcspace, and ifcbuildingelement in ifc, respectively. however, ifc does not have a single term that defines the various mechanical and electrical equipment, furniture, and systems (e.g., sprinkler systems) in buildings. therefore, this study utilized the term system and equipment to define the concepts of equipment, furniture, and systems with reference to sjgxxx-2023 (sjgxxx-2023). furthermore, considering the clauses related to factory buildings often involve sources and materials (such as combustible gases and liquids), the term goods is introduced to capture such concepts. table 3 of section 4 summarizes the distribution of the object types in the gb 50016-2014. step 2: extraction of atomic functions for rule checking due to the inherent ambiguity of natural language, extracting functions is not as straightforward as the extraction of objects, often requiring the interpretation and intervention of domain experts. the extraction of functions is the process of analyzing the phrases that constrain and restrict objects, and then explicitly representing the shared computational logics of implicit properties and complex constraints. the names of the derived functions are defined using the camel case method. the function name begins with a verb, followed by a noun or adjective that describes the function. the verbs can generally be classified into three types: "get," "is," and "has". functions starting with "get" return collections of objects, strings, or numeric values. functions beginning with "is" and most functions starting with "has" return boolean values. the parameters of a function include (1) obj, the objects to be checked, and (2) type: the method by which the checking process is conducted. a typical example is float getspacedistance(space a, space b, type c). this function calculates the distance between two spaces and returns a float value. the parameters of the function include two space objects (a and b) and a type parameter. the type indicates the method used to measure the distance. examples of distance measurement methods include linear distance, evacuation distance, and so on. after the extraction of atomic functions, we further divided the functions into 8 categories based on their usage type, including property, space_location, existence, quantity, geometry, distance, wall window ratio, and area. then we also differentiate between low-order functions and high-order functions within the atomic functions. low-order functions can only complete the checks based on a single or small number of explicit data from the model. these functions can be expressed using first-order logic. however, low- 10 order functions can not execute more complex checking. for instance, consider the clause: "adjacent nursing units in hospitals shall be separated by fire partition walls with a fire resistance rating of not less than 2.00h (from chinese codes)". because some of the topology and geometry information are not explicitly stored in models and should be derived, it would be challenging for low-order functions to check the adjacency relationship between nursing units and to accurately locate the position of the partition wall. while the high-order functions can derive implicit data from explicit data and thus can handle phrases with complex computational logics that are difficult for lower-order functions. step 3: establishment of database this step aims to record the unique functions extracted in step 2 to establish the database. the record information includes the function category (i.e, "category"), the input object category (i.e., "object"), the output type (i.e., "output"), function name (i.e., "function_name"), and the meaning of the function (i.e., "description"). a typical example is shown in the fig.3 below. a comprehensive overview of the atomic function database is shown in table a (appendix) fig. 3 example of the function recorded in the database 3.2 domain-specific prompting of llm for function identification 3.2.1 injecting domain knowledge with prompt engineering although existing llms have been trained on vast datasets, leading to remarkable advancements in natural dialogue, mathematical reasoning, and program synthesis (patil et al., 2023), they still face limitations in comprehending domain-specific knowledge (saka et al., 2023). this limitation arises from limited information stored in fixed weights in the model. thus, when encountering the atomic function database defined in this work, beyond the extent of llms pretraining datasets, it becomes challenging for the model to identify the required complex functions for regulatory clauses directly. additional efforts are needed to enhance their understanding of domain-specific knowledge. injecting domain-specific knowledge into the llms includes fine-tuning (wang et al., 2023) and prompt engineering (zuccon & koopman, 2023), but fine-tuning llm requires very large gpu memory resources, so the prompt engineering-based method is adopted. a prompt is a set of instructions provided to an llm that sets the context for the conversation and tells the llm what information is important and what the desired output form and content should be (white et al., 2023). injecting domain knowledge with prompt engineering can be formalized as follows. suppose we  that are provided as part of the test-time have a knowledge base  and a set of k examples {(, )}=1 input (gao et al., 2022), where k is usually a very small number,  is the input text,  is the 11 descriptionfunction_nameoutputobjectcategorythe distance between space a and space b is measured by the measurement criteria c; getspacedistance(space a, space b, type c)floatspacedistance corresponding output retrieved from the given knowledge base  . then the prompt  =  || 1  1 ||  ||    , where " " means the concatenation of the input and output of each example, and "||" means the concatenation of the knowledge base and different examples. during the inference stage, the target instance  is appended to the prompt , and  ||  is passed to the llms to generate the answer . note that the prompt does not require back-propagation and modify the parameters of llms. 3.2.2 prompt template design with chain of thought in this work, to enable llms to understand the domain-specific knowledge contained in the proposed atomic function database and further identify proper functions based on requirements, we design a prompt template, as depicted in fig. 4. the proposed prompt template consists of five parts, including goal, database, requirement, example, and analysis. (1) the goal part defines the tasks that llm needs to accomplish, which is to identify the most suitable functions from the atomic function database for each input clause. (2) the prompt of the database part serves to inject the information from the developed atomic function database into the llm, enabling it to become acquainted with the relevant details of the atomic function database. specifically, the prompt of the database part describes the following information, including the function category (i.e, "category"), object category (i.e, "object"), function name (i.e, "function_name"), the meaning of the function (i.e, "description"), and natural language phrases from codes that employ the function (i.e., "example"). the provided few examples aim to allow the llms to better understand the semantics of the function, which is called few shot prompting strategy (logan et al., 2021). (3) the requirement part outlines the expected format of the identified function by the llm. in the requirement part, besides the format instruction, zero shot chain of thought (kojima et al., 2022) technology is introduced by adding "step_by_step" in the prompt. this is conducive to the model to make it think step by step according to the requirements, so as to get the correct answer. (4) the example part aims to provide several analyses of cases that guide the llm's thought process, resembling human beings reasoning process step by step, through the use of the cot technology (wei et al., 2022). the main idea of cot is that by showing the llm some few shot exemplars where the reasoning process is explained in the exemplars (wei et al., 2022). in this particular task, the llm is first tasked with identifying the key phrases related to atomic functions, then inferring the function category and object category based on the key phrases, and ultimately providing the proper functions accordingly. (5) lastly, the analysis part pertains to the clause that needs to be analyzed. 12 fig. 4 prompt for atomic function identification 3.2.3 classification-based prompt tuning furthermore, when dealing with a large number of atomic functions within the atomic function database, recommending functions becomes more challenging for the llm. besides, because the prompt in the database part is too long, the length of the whole prompt may exceed the max token of llms. to address this, we propose a classification-based prompt tuning method to categorize the function categories of the input clauses and further refined the prompt before utilizing the llm for function identification. the purpose of classification is to filter out the atomic functions that are 13 (4)examplepartinformsthethinkingprocess(chainofthought)"goal":"youareahelpfulapirecommendation.youshouldrecommendsomeapisforthesentence,basedontherequirementsandtheprovided$api_database,tosupporttranslatethesentenceintocode.",hereisthe$api_database:{["category":"area","object":"space","function_name":"getfloorarea(spacea)","description":gettheareaofspacea","example":['floorareaoftheroom',],}"requirements":"chooseatmost5apisfromtheaboveprovided$api_databaseforthesentence.youfirstdeterminethecategory,theobject,andthenthefunction_namestep_by_step.donotrepeattheformatinyouranswer.theanswershouldfollowtheformat:{<<<category>>>:$category,<<<object>>>:$object,<<<function_name>>>:$function_name,<<<description>>>:$description,}",herearesomeexamplesforyou:[1]example1,sentence:themaximumareaofthefirecompartmentcannotbegreaterthan2000inferencesteps:thecategoryinferredfrommaximumareaisarea,theobjectinferredfromfirecompartmentisspacethenthefuntion_nameshouldbegetfloorarea(spacea,typeb).thus,thefirstansweris:{"category":area,"object":space,"function_name":getfloorarea(spacea,typeb),"description":gettheareaofspaceaviatypeb}hereisthesentence:(1)goalpartdefinesthetasks(3)requirementpartdefinesthedetailedoutputformat(2)databasepartinjectstheinformationofhigh-levelfunctions(5)analysispartinputstheruletobeanalyzedzeroshotchainofthought completely irrelevant to the given clause, thereby reducing the selection scope for the llm and refining and shortening the prompt, as illustrated in fig. 5. fig. 5 classification-based prompt tuning method (a) the full prompt, (b) the refined prompt given that interpreting a clause may need multiple atomic functions from multiple categories, multiple binary classifications should be performed for each clause. in this study, we adopt a keyword matching-based classification method due to the limitations of machine learning-based approaches, which typically require extensive datasets and laborious manual labeling. to implement this method, we define a table of keywords for classification, with a subset of these predetermined keywords presented in table 2. for each category, a clause is classified into this category if it contains a keyword of this category. it is important to note that we only classify certain categories including quantity, geometry, distance, and area. this decision is based on three main reasons. first, almost all clauses contain the property category. second, the keywords related to the space_location category and the existence category exhibit a high overlap rate, making it difficult to distinguish between them. such ambiguity could potentially lead to function identification errors caused by classification errors. third, very few clauses use the functions of the wall_window_ratio category, so this category is not considered in the classification. relevant experiments to validate the effectiveness of this method are conducted in section 5. category quantity geometry distance area table 2 keywords for rule categories keywords (in chinese) number, times length, width, height, higher than distance, distance bewteen area, volume 14 hereisthe$api_database:{["category":"area","object":"space","function_name":"getfloorarea(spacea)","description":gettheareaofspacea","example":['floorareaoftheroom',],["category":"quantity","object":"space","function_name":"getnumberofspace(spacea)","description":getthenumberofspacea","example":thenumberofelevatorshafts"],}hereisthe$api_database:{["category":"quantity","object":"space","function_name":"getnumberofspace(spacea)","description":getthenumberofspacea","example":thenumberofelevatorshafts"],}input clause: the number of floors should not larger than 2(a)(b)input clause: the number of floors should not larger than 2reservedpromptfull function databaseinferred category:quantityinput clauseclassification methodfiltered function database 3.3 validation the validation stage aims to validate the expressibility of the function database for rules with complex computational logic and the performances of the proposed domain-specific prompt engineering for function identification based on llm. thus, descriptive and statistical analyses are conducted for the validation of the expressibility of the function database (section 4). then, two experiments are conducted to examine the performances of the proposed llm-based atomic function identification method (section 5.1) using the two metrics described in the subsections (section 3.3.1 and 3.3.2). finally, a rule checking of an actual plant is conducted as a proof of concept to validate the effectiveness of the proposed method in arc (section 5.2). 3.3.1 validation metrics for text classification first, to measure the classification result, the model predictions are compared with the gold standard, and the precision (p), recall (r), and f1-score (f1) can be calculated for each sentence category as follows:  =  / ( + )  =  / ( + ) 1 = 2/( + ) (1) (2) (3) where , , , and  denotes the number of true positive, false positive, true negative, and false negative elements for each label. 3.3.2 validation metrics for function identification to measure the applicability of the proposed llm-based atomic function identification method, the results predicted by models are compared with the gold standard, and the widely used metrics for recommender systems recall@k (malaeb, 2017; melchiorre et al., 2020) are calculated as follows: @ = @ /   @ = ( @)/  (4) (5) where @ denotes the number of relevant atomic functions among top k identified functions for each clause.  denotes the number of all relevant functions for each clause. @ denotes the average @ value of all clauses. in this work, the k is set to 5 according to previous studies (xia et al., 2013; wang et al., 2018). 4 descriptive and statistical analysis of developed function database 4.1 results of data acquisition and preprocessing regulatory texts from the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014) are utilized as the data source for this study. a total of 451 textual clauses were collected. then the long clauses were split into short clauses, resulting in a total of 679 textual clauses. subsequently, a total of 1048 tabular clauses are then converted into the textual format, bringing the cumulative count to 1727. 15 after filtering out non-computer-processable clauses, 235 clauses were excluded. as a result, a total of 1492 computer-processable clauses were remained and suitable for subsequent analysis. experts were then tasked to identify sentence categories and atomic functions encapsulated within these clauses. 4.2 descriptive analysis of objects involved and atomic functions table 3 summarizes the distribution of types of objects in chapters 3, 4, and 5 of the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014). in chapter 3, most design clauses focus on the object in the building category (45.86%), followed by objects in the space category (29.17%); as for chapter 4, the design clauses are also mainly concentrated on the objects in the building category (48.35%) similar to that of chapter 3. however, in chapter 4, there is a higher proportion of clauses related to the objects in the category in the system and equipment category, accounting for 30.47%. compared with the former two chapters, chapter 5 focuses on the check of objects in the element category and the space category, accounting for 37.51% and 30.57%, respectively. table 3 distribution of objects types space element equipment building goods frequency % frequency % frequency % frequency % frequency % 528 29.17% 256 14.14% 48 2.65% 830 45.86% 148 8.18% 201 13.82% 39 2.68% 443 30.47% 703 48.35% 568 30.57% 697 37.51% 128 6.89% 451 24.27% 68 14 4.68% 0.75% chapter 3 chapter 4 chapter 5 table a (in appendix) presents a comprehensive overview of the atomic function database established in this study, encompassing 66 atomic functions. the functions are classified into eight categories based on their usage, including existence, quantity, geometry, distance, area, space location, window-to-wall ratio, and property. table a introduces the category, type of the return values, function name, and the corresponding description of each atomic function. the atomic function database consists of 5 low-order functions and 61 high-order functions, with the low-order functions distinguished by being highlighted in green. the low-order functions primarily consist of functions within the property category, as they can only process a single or a small number of explicit data from the model. functions in the other categories involve more intricate computational logics, making them high-order functions. 4.3 statistical analysis of atomic functions then, this study counts the occurrence of defined functions in different clauses. fig. 6 illustrates the frequency distribution of the functions that have been utilized more than 10 times. notably, low- order functions are represented in pink, while high-order functions are denoted in blue. the analysis reveals a long-tail distribution in function usage, suggesting that algorithm engineers should prioritize the implementation of functions that are frequently used. among the top five most utilized functions, three functions are low-order functions (i.e., getproperty(building a, type b), getproperty(element a, type b), and getproperty(element a, type b)). the remaining two functions are high-order functions (i.e., getfireproofdistance(building a, building b, type c) and hasspace(building a, space b)). 16 notably, the high-order functions that are most commonly employed include getfireproofdistance(building a, building b, type c), hasspace(building a, space b), haselement(building a, element b), haselement(space a, element b), and hasequipment(building a, equipment b). this observation highlights that high-order functions are mostly used in checking fire separation distances between buildings and extracting the containment relationships among objects. fig. 6 usage distribution of partial functions among 66 functions additionally, fig. 7 provides insights into the usage proportion of functions of different categories. it is worth noting that the functions of the property category (low-order functions) exhibit the highest frequency of usage. this is attributed to the frequent need for retrieving properties associated with the objects to be checked, making it the most commonly used functions. following the property category, the second most utilized category is the existence category. this prominence stems from the frequent need to inquire about the containment relationship among objects during the checking of clause from fire codes. for instance, clauses such as "the number of safety exits for each fire protection zone shall not be less than 2" involves the containment relationship between fire protection zone and safety exits. the third most frequently employed category is the distance category. this is primarily due to the check of fire protection distances and evacuation distances that are often involved in the checking fire code. 17 1.00%1.06%1.06%1.08%1.13%1.15%1.29%2.67%2.67%2.96%3.00%3.23%4.86%6.11%6.31%7.23%7.36%13.50%23.34%00.050.10.150.20.25hasgoods(space a,goods b)getelementwidth(element a,type b)isadjacent(space a,element b,direction c)getfloorarea(building a,type b)hasgoods(building a,goods b)hasexternal(space a)getelementdistance(element a,element b,type c)hasequipment(space a,equipment b)getproperty(goods a,type b)getfloorarea(space a,type b)hasequipment(building a,equipment b)haselement(space a,element b)haselement(building a,element b)getproperty(equipment a,type b)getproperty(element a,type b)hasspace(building a,space b)getproperty(space a,type b)getfireproofdistance(building a,building b,type c)getproperty(building a,type b)high-order functionlow-order function fig. 7 usage proportion of functions of different categories furthermore, to assess the effectiveness of the function database, two kinds of clauses are discussed, as shown in fig. 8. the first part represents the clauses that can be interpreted solely using low-order functions, which accounts for a relatively low percentage of 7.77% among the total computer- processable clauses. this indicates that although the low-order functions exhibit the highest frequency of usage, solely using the low-order functions can not sufficiently meet the requirements of fully automated rule interpretation. when adopting both low-order functions and high-order functions in the atomic functions, a significant amount of clauses, 92.23%, can be successfully interpreted further. this demonstrates that the established atomic functions database, encompassing both low-order and high- order functions, serves as the foundational blocks for interpreting regulatory clauses, enabling almost 100% of interpretation and representation of computer-processible clauses. fig. 8 percentage of clauses that can be interpreted among all computer-processable clauses 5 experiments and results this section delineates an experiment conducted to authenticate the efficacy of our proposed method. initially, a part of the manually-curated gold standards developed in section 4.1 was selected. 18 property46%existence27%distance16%others11%7.77%7.77%92.23%0.00%20.00%40.00%60.00%80.00%100.00%only low-orderfunctionsall functions the dataset for experiments encompassed 410 sentences, along with their corresponding categories and atomic functions. then, the results of llm-funcmapper including atomic function identification and automated text classification methods are juxtaposed against these gold standards, and evaluate the performance using the metrics defined in section 3.3. 5.1 results of llm-funcmapper to investigate the applicability of the proposed llm-funcmapper for atomic function identification, several experiments are conducted in this section. prior to conducting experiments, we evaluated the performance of several llms on the function identification task. the models tested included chatgpt (openai, 2022), gpt4 (openai, 2023), and claude (anthropic, 2022). through our testing, we discovered that claude outperformed the others and demonstrated the ability to identify parts of the atomic functions. consequently, claude was selected as the model for further analysis. first, we input the full prompt into claude (i.e., following the approach depicted in fig. 5 (a)) to identify the atomic functions used in the 410 sentences. then, we employed the classification-based tuning strategy to acquire the refined prompt and predicted the atomic functions of each clause using the refined prompt (i.e., following the approach depicted in fig. 5 (b)). table 4 presents the overall results of the atomic functions identified by the two methods. it can be seen that the recall@5avg value of using the full prompt is 43.98%, which means that approximately 2 of the recommended 5 functions are the right functions needed to interprete the current clause. the result indicates the potential of llm in atomic function identification. however, with the refined prompt, the recall@5avg value was improved to 52.60%, which is 8.62% higher than using the full prompt. this demonstrates that the proposed text classification-based prompt tuning method can significantly enhance the prediction effectiveness of the llms without finetuning or pretraining the llms. table 4 performance of function identification method method claude+full prompt recall@5avg 43.98% claude+classification+refined prompt 52.60% it should be noted that the function recommendation task is a very challenging end-to-end task. because the parameter is an important component of the functions that specifies what kind of object will be inputted. thus, the identified functions are only considered correct if the parameters are also predicted accurately. such an evaluation method is more user-friendly for domain experts who may not be familiar with the atomic function database, but it also poses more significant prediction challenges for llms. additionally, claude is currently employed, and its training data does not encompass the proposed atomic function databases and thus has certain limitations. although the performance of the method is not so high, it is close to the sota performance of similar tasks like api recommendation (patil et al.. 2023), and is sufficient to be used to recommend proper predefined functions for domain experts and help them interpret regulatory clauses more quickly. table 4 shows that the classification-based tuning method significantly improves performance. 19 considering the specific classification task this work aims to filter out unsuitable atomic functions from the function database for the llm-based atomic function identification method, consequently simplifying the llm's predictive task. thus a low recall rate for the classification algorithm can inadvertently eliminate useful atomic functions, leading to errors. as such, the recall rate serves as the most crucial performance indicator in our study. table 5 shows that satisfactory recall values of all binary classifications (i.e., recall values of all categories are higher than 92%) are achieved by the adopted keyword matching-based classification method. besides, this work only adopts a simple keyword-based classification strategy, and the performance can be further improved using more advanced methods in the future. table 5 performance of text classification method category quantity geometry distance area number precision 27 44 90 61 21.8% 89.8% 98.8% 96.8% recall 100% 100% 92.2% 98.4% f1-score 35.8% 94.6% 95.4% 97.6% the typical case presented in fig. 9 highlights the difference between the results obtained using the full prompt prediction and the refined prompt prediction. it can be seen that when using the full prompt, the llm predicted an atomic function ("function3" in fig. 9) from the geometry category that is unrelated to the clause. while the ground truth categories of this clause are property and existence. in comparison to the ground truth, only one atomic function was correctly identified, as shown in fig. 9. conversely, when using the refined prompt for prediction, the results did not contain functions from irrelevant categories, and two atomic functions were predicted accurately, as shown in fig. 9. fig. 9 exemplary ouputs of the proposed llm-funcmapper 5.2 proof of concept for arc 20 when the fire resistance rating of the building is class 3, the wall of the stairwell, front room and elevator shaft is non-combustible, and the fire resistance limit of the wall is not less than 1.50h. (in chinese: 1.50h)clausefunction4function3function2function1categoriesproperty: getproperty(elementa,propertyb)existence:haselement(spacea,elementb);existence:hasspace(buildinga,spaceb);property: getproperty(buildinga,propertyb)property; existenceground truthexistence:hasexternal(spacea)geometry:getelementheight(elementa,typeb)property: getproperty(elementa,propertyb)property: getproperty(spacea,propertyb)all 8 categoriesfull promptexistence:haselement(spacea,elementb);property: getproperty(elementa,propertyb)property: getproperty(spacea,propertyb)property; existence;space_locationrefined promptcategoryfunction nameobject typepredict truepredict false in this section, the real application of the proposed method is demonstrated by performing rule checking on an actual plant building. the plant building has a total floor area of 6920 m2 with two aboveground floors. the process begins by exporting an ifc model of the plant building from the revit bim model. next, two example clauses containing complex statements are selected from the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014). these clauses involve counting the number of elements and calculating distances, respectively, as depicted in fig. 10. the complex statements within these clauses are challenging to describe using conventional logical languages like first order logic. to interpret these clauses, some of the defined atomic functions defined are implemented based on python and ifcopenshell (ifcopenshell, 2023). utilizing the proposed llm-funcmapper, suitable atomic functions are identified and utilized to interpret the selected clauses into python codes. the "identified functions" parts in fig. 10 (a)&(b) show the identified 5 functions for clauses 1 and clause 2, respectively. the functions marked in red are the correctly identified ones and are then used to interpret the clause into computer-executable python codes. as for clause 1, a total of three atomic functions are required, and two functions among the five identified functions are correct. as for clause 2, a total of four functions are required, and three functions among the five identified functions are correct. with the llm-funcmapper, domain experts spend less time searching for the proper functions. then the python codes can then be executed to check the model. the checking results of the ifc model using the example clauses are presented in fig. 10. as for clause 1, the fire protection zone with less than 2 safety exits that do not meet the requirement is identified. the global id of the space associated with this violation is "1wxu_jted61p7zyfarwkmy". the model checker provides the global id of the selected elements, enabling users to locate and address the identified elements accordingly. as for clause 2, the clause specifies that the horizontal distance between the nearest two adjacent safety exits in each fire compartment should not be less than 5m. in the checked ifc model, the horizontal distance between two adjacent safety exits is measured to be 86.3m, satisfying the requirements of the clause. this test validates the feasibility of executing atomic functions for automated rule checking. the adoption of atomic functions offers software vendors the advantage of reduced difficulty in interpreting building codes, facilitating more efficient rule checking processes. 21 (a) clause 1 22 clause 1: the number of safety exits in the plant is not less than 2 for each fire protection zone.executable codes:defgetnumberofelement_safetyexit(ifc_space) -> int:doors = haselement(ifc_space, 'ifcdoor')safety_exit_num= 0fordoor indoors:ifgetproperty(door, 'fire_exist?'):safety_exit_num+= 1returnsafety_exit_numifc_spaces= ifcopenshell.open(ifc_file_path).by_type('ifcspace')fire_prevent_spaces= [space forspace inifc_spacesifgetproperty(space, 'fire_protection_zone?)]pass = truefor space infire_prevent_spaces:ifgetnumberofelement_safetyexit(space)<2:print(f'thespace with id: {space.globalid} not pass the checking!)pass = falseifpass: print(pass the check!")result:the space with id: 1wxu_jted61p7zyfarwkmy not pass the checking!identified functions: getproperty(space a,propertyb); hasexternal(space a); hasequipment(space a,equipmentb); getproperty(element a,propertyb); hasspace(space a,spaceb) fig. 10 proof-of-concept of llm-funcmapper for automated compliance checking (b) clause 2 6 discussion as for rule interpretation, some building codes encompass a large number of clauses with intricate semantics that rely on complex computational logics including implicit properties inferring and geometric calculation. however, the use of conventional logical representations like first-order logic, proves insufficient in effectively interpreting these complex clauses due to lack of domain knowledge and limited expressibility. to enable the automated rule interpretation over a broader range of clauses, llm-funcmapper, an approach to identifying predefined functions needed to interpret various regulatory clauses based on the llm, is proposed. llm-funcmapper consists of atomic function database development and domain-specific prompt engineering. to realize this, this work endeavors to establish a series of atomic functions to capture shared computational logics of implicit properties and complex constraints, through a systematical and meticulous analysis of the clauses in the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014). in addition, we design a domain-specific prompt template and a classification-based prompt tuning strategy for atomic function identification via 23 executable codes:defgetminsafetyexitdistance(ifc_space) -> float:doors = haselement(ifc_space, 'ifcdoor')safety_exits= []fordoor indoors:ifgetproperty(door, 'fire_exist?'):safety_exits.append(door)safety_exits= list(set(safety_exits))min_distance= np.infforiinrange(len(safety_exits)):forj inrange(i+ 1, len(safety_exits)):safety_exit_a= safety_exits[i]safety_exit_b= safety_exits[j]new_distance= getelementdistance(safety_exit_a, safety_exit_b)if new_distance< min_distance:min_distance= new_distancereturnmin_distanceifc_spaces= ifcopenshell.open(ifc_file_path).by_type('ifcspace')fire_prevent_spaces= [space forspace inifc_spacesifgetproperty(space, 'fire_protection_zone?)]pass = trueforspace infire_prevent_spaces:ifgetminsafetyexitdistance(space)< 5000: print(f'thespace with id: {space.globalid} not pass the checking!)pass= falseifpass: print(pass the check!")clause 2:the horizontal distance between the nearest two safety exits in each fire protection zone shall not be less than 5m.result:pass the check!identified functions: getelementdistance(element a,elementb,typec); getlineardistance(space a, element b, type c); hasexternal(space a); getproperty(space a,propertyb); haselement(space a,elementb) llms. the established atomic functions and the corresponding atomic function identification method equip domain experts with practical techniques to enhance their rule interpretation process. finally, the results of the conducted statistical analyses, experiments, and the proof of concept highlight several insights as follows: 1. through a systematical and meticulous analysis of the clauses in the chinese codes, an atomic function database consisting of 66 atomic functions is established. these functions can capture the shared complex computational logic within clauses and serve as common foundational blocks for interpreting regulatory clauses, and thus empowering domain experts to efficiently interpret complex clauses. remarkably, this is the first atomic function database established for chinese regulations. the conducted statistical analyses reveal a long-tail distribution pattern in the frequency of atomic functions usage. certain functions exhibit significantly higher usage rates compared to others. consequently, algorithm engineers can prioritize the development and implementation of functions with a higher frequency of utilization. besides, the statistical analyzes also reveal the great potential of the function to represent and interpret complex rules. without the high-order functions in the atomic function database, 92.23% of computer- processible clauses cannot be fully interpreted; while by integrating both low-order and high- order functions, almost 100% of computer-processible clauses could be interpreted and represented as computer-executable codes. 2. the conducted experiments show that the designed domain-specific prompt templates enable the common llm for effective function identification. then, with the proposed classification- based prompt tuning strategy, the refined prompt can further enhance the identification capabilities of llms, which improves the prediction recall rate by 8.62%. the proof of concept in automated rule interpretation also demonstrates that the proposed methods can reduce the difficulty in rule interpretation in terms of complex clauses. the results also show that llms have the potential to achieve a comprehensive understanding of regulatory texts. to the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to introduce llms for understanding and interpreting complex regulatory clauses, which may shed light on further adoption of llms in the construction domain. for example, llms can be used to extract design information to support intelligent design or parametric design. llms can also extract knowledge from massive documents of the construction domain to achieve domain-specific intelligent question- answering. 3. the currently developed sentence-level llm-funcmapper can interactively identify functions to domain experts, effectively reducing the challenges in function selection. however, future advancements can be made by developing a word-level llm-funcmapper. by integrating the word-level llm-funcmapper into the existing automated rule interpretation framework, phrases containing computational logics can be mapped to predefined atomic functions, enabling fully automated interpretation and code generation of a broader range of clauses. several aspects of limitations of this research are identified and could be studied in the future: 1. the atomic function database can be expanded to encompass a broader range of domains. while the proposed functions have been validated on regulation texts from gb 50016-2014, there are 24 other fields, such as earthquake resistance, energy, and sustainability, that may require additional atomic functions. future research can focus on enriching the atomic function database to accommodate the regulatory requirements of different domains. 2. regarding the proposed llm-funcmapper, there are challenges when the function database becomes too extensive. the prompt-based domain knowledge injection method will become impractical due to the maximum token limit of llms. in addition, the common llms trained on general datasets may not perform optimally in specialized domains. for example, during our testing, chatgpt generated poor results, occasionally repeating the first few functions from the function database. in some cases, gpt4 recognized insufficient information and was unable to generate or identify the corresponding function, as illustrated in fig. 11. therefore, future efforts can explore fine-tuning the domain-specific llms of the architecture, engineering, and construction domain (zheng et al., 2022b). 3. the current text classification method, which relies on keyword matching, can be further improved by adopting deep learning-based techniques to enhance its precision. this can further reduce the number and information of atomic functions input into llms, thus shortening the prompt length and enhancing the identification performance. fig. 11 the result from gpt4 7 conclusion as a vital stage of automated rule checking (arc), rule interpretation of regulatory texts requires considerable effort. however, interpreting regulatory clauses with implicit properties or complex computational logic is still challenging due to the lack of domain knowledge and limited expressibility of conventional logic representations. to enable the rule interpretation over a broader range of clauses, llm-funcmapper, an approach to identifying predefined functions needed to interpret various regulatory clauses based on the llm, is proposed. first, by systematically analysis of building codes, a series of atomic functions encompassing 66 atomic functions are defined to capture shared computational logics of implicit properties and complex constraints, creating a database of common blocks for interpreting regulatory clauses. then, a prompt template with the series of prompt strategies including the chain of thought (cot) is developed and further enhanced with a classification-based 25 tuning strategy, to enable common llm for effective function identification. finally, the results of the conducted statistical analyses, experiments, and proof of concepts highlight several contributions. first, statistical analyses reveal a long-tail distribution pattern of the developed functions. certain functions emerge as particularly prevalent, prompting algorithm engineers to prioritize their development and implementation. second, statistical analyses show the high expressibility of the developed function database, with which almost 100% of computer-processible clauses can be interpreted as computer- executable codes. experiments show that llm-funcmapper achieve promising results in identifying relevant predefined functions for rule interpretation. finally, the proof of concept in automated rule interpretation also demonstrates the possibility of llm-funcmapper in interpreting complex regulatory clauses. to the best of our knowledge, this study is the first attempt to introduce llms for understanding and interpreting complex regulatory clauses, which may shed light on further adoption of llms in the construction domain. acknowledgement the authors are grateful for the financial support received from the national natural science foundation of china (no. 52238011, no. 72091512, no. 51908323). references [1] eastman, c., lee, j. m., jeong, y. s., & lee, j. k. (2009). automatic rule-based checking of building designs. automation in construction, 18(8), 1011-1033. [2] soliman-junior, j., tzortzopoulos, p., baldauf, j. p., pedo, b., kagioglou, m., formoso, c. t., & humphreys, j. (2021). automated compliance checking in healthcare building design. automation in construction, 129, 103822. [3] zhang, j., & el-gohary, n. m. (2017). integrating semantic nlp and logic reasoning into a unified system for fully-automated code checking. automation in construction, 73, 45-57. [4] xu, x., & cai, h. (2021). ontology and rule-based natural language processing approach for interpreting textual regulations on underground utility infrastructure. advanced engineering informatics, 48, 101288. [5] zhong, b., wu, h., ding, l., luo, h., luo, y., & pan, x. (2020). hyperledger fabric-based consortium blockchain for construction quality information management. frontiers of engineering management, 7(4), 512-527. [6] nawari, n. o. (2020). generalized adaptive framework for computerizing the building design review process. journal of architectural engineering, 26(1), 04019026. [7] dimyadi, j., pauwels, p., & amor, r. (2016). modelling and accessing regulatory knowledge for computer-assisted compliance audit. [8] nawari, n. o. (2019). a generalized adaptive framework (gaf) for automating code compliance checking. buildings, 9(4), 86. [9] ismail, a. s., ali, k. n., & iahad, n. a. (2017, july). a review on bim-based automated code compliance checking system. in 2017 international conference on research and innovation in information systems (icriis) (pp. 1-6). ieee. [10] zheng, z., zhou, y. c., lu, x. z., & lin, j. r. (2022a). knowledge-informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking. automation in construction, 142, 104524. [11] zhou, y. c., zheng, z., lin, j. r., & lu, x. z. (2022). integrating nlp and context-free grammar for complex rule 26 interpretation towards automated compliance checking. computers in industry, 142, 103746. [12] beach, t. h., rezgui, y., li, h., & kasim, t. (2015). a rule-based semantic approach for automated regulatory compliance in the construction sector. expert systems with applications, 42(12), 52195231. [13] hjelseth, e., & nisbet, n. (2011, october). capturing normative constraints by use of the semantic mark-up rase methodology. in proceedings of cib w78-w102 conference (pp. 1-10). [14] solihin, w., & eastman, c. m. (2016). a knowledge representation approach in bim rule requirement analysis using the conceptual graph. j. inf. technol. constr., 21, 370-401. [15] zhang, j., & el-gohary, n. m. (2016). semantic nlp-based information extraction from construction regulatory documents for automated compliance checking. journal of computing in civil engineering, 30(2), 04015014. [16] zhang, j., & el-gohary, n. m. (2015). automated information transformation for automated regulatory compliance checking in construction. journal of computing in civil engineering, 29(4), b4015001. [17] moon, s., lee, g., & chi, s. (2022). automated system for construction specification review using natural language processing. advanced engineering informatics, 51, 101495. [18] zhang, r., & el-gohary, n. (2022). hierarchical representation and deep learningbased method for automatically transforming textual building codes into semantic computable requirements. journal of computing in civil engineering, 36(5), 04022022. [19] solihin, w., & eastman, c. (2015). classification of rules for automated bim rule checking development. automation in construction, 53, 69-82. [20] zhou, p., & el-gohary, n. (2017). ontology-based automated information extraction from building energy conservation codes. automation in construction, 74, 103-117. [21] kuske, d., & schweikardt, n. (2017, june). first-order logic with counting. in 2017 32nd annual acm/ieee symposium on logic in computer science (lics) (pp. 1-12). ieee. [22] daum, s., & borrmann, a. (2015). simplifying the analysis of building information models using tql4bim and vql4bim. in proc. of the eg-ice 2015. [23] lee, j. k., & eastman, c. m. (2019). demonstration of bera language-based approach to offsite construction design analysis. in offsite production and manufacturing for innovative construction (pp. 129-162). routledge. [24] mazairac, w., & beetz, j. (2013). bimqlan open query language for building information models. advanced engineering informatics, 27(4), 444-456. [25] zhang, c., beetz, j., & de vries, b. (2018). bimsparql: domain-specific functional sparql extensions for querying rdf building data. semantic web, 9(6), 829-855. [26] lee, j. k., cho, k., choi, h., choi, s., kim, s., & cha, s. h. (2023). high-level implementable methods for automated building code compliance checking. developments in the built environment, 15, 100174. [27] uhm, m., lee, g., park, y., kim, s., jung, j., & lee, j. k. (2015). requirements for computational rule checking of requests for proposals (rfps) for building designs in south korea. advanced engineering informatics, 29(3), 602- 615. [28] lau, g., & law, k. (2004). an information infrastructure for comparing accessibility regulations and related information from multiple sources. [29] song, j., kim, j., & lee, j. k. (2018). nlp and deep learning-based analysis of building regulations to support automated rule checking system. in isarc. proceedings of the international symposium on automation and robotics in construction (vol. 35, pp. 1-7). iaarc publications. [30] lee, j. k., eastman, c. m., & lee, y. c. (2015). implementation of a bim domain-specific language for the building environment rule and analysis. journal of intelligent & robotic systems, 79, 507-522. 27 [31] fowler, m. (2010). domain specific languages. [32] daum, s., & borrmann, a. (2013). definition and implementation of temporal operators for a 4d query language. in computing in civil engineering (2013) (pp. 468-475). [33] daum, s., & borrmann, a. (2014). processing of topological bim queries using boundary representation based methods. advanced engineering informatics, 28(4), 272-286. [34] sydora, c., & stroulia, e. (2020). rule-based compliance checking and generative design for building interiors using bim. automation in construction, 120, 103368. [35] mernik, m., heering, j., & sloane, a. m. (2005). when and how to develop domain-specific languages. acm computing surveys (csur), 37(4), 316-344. [36] peng, y., li, s., gu, w., li, y., wang, w., gao, c., & lyu, m. r. (2022). revisiting, benchmarking and exploring api recommendation: how far are we?. ieee transactions on software engineering, 49(4), 1876-1897. [37] nguyen, a. t., hilton, m., codoban, m., nguyen, h. a., mast, l., rademacher, e., ... & dig, d. (2016, november). api code recommendation using statistical learning from fine-grained changes. in proceedings of the 2016 24th acm sigsoft international symposium on foundations of software engineering (pp. 511-522). [38] zhong, h., xie, t., zhang, l., pei, j., & mei, h. (2009). mapo: mining and recommending api usage patterns. in ecoop 2009object-oriented programming: 23rd european conference, genoa, italy, july 6-10, 2009. proceedings 23 (pp. 318-343). springer berlin heidelberg. [39] openai (2022). chatgpt. https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt [access on 2023-06-13] [40] touvron, h., lavril, t., izacard, g., martinet, x., lachaux, m. a., lacroix, t., ... & lample, g. (2023). llama: open and efficient foundation language models. arxiv preprint arxiv:2302.13971. [41] international organization for standardization. (2018). industry foundation classes (ifc) for data sharing in the construction and facility management industries (iso 16739-1: 2018). [42] the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china (2014). code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 50016-2014). (in chinese) [43] housing and construction bureau of shenzhen (2023). standard for building information modeling semantic data dictionary (building fascicule) (sjgxxx-2023). (in chinese) [44] saka, a., taiwo, r., saka, n., salami, b., ajayi, s., akande, k., & kazemi, h. (2023). gpt models in construction industry: opportunities, limitations, and a use case validation. arxiv preprint arxiv:2305.18997. [45] patil, s. g., zhang, t., wang, x., & gonzalez, j. e. (2023). gorilla: large language model connected with massive apis. arxiv preprint arxiv:2305.15334. [46] zuccon, g., & koopman, b. (2023). dr chatgpt, tell me what i want to hear: how prompt knowledge impacts health answer correctness. arxiv preprint arxiv:2302.13793. [47] white, j., fu, q., hays, s., sandborn, m., olea, c., gilbert, h., ... & schmidt, d. c. (2023). a prompt pattern catalog to enhance prompt engineering with chatgpt. arxiv preprint arxiv:2302.11382. https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.11382.pdf [48] wang, h., liu, c., xi, n., qiang, z., zhao, s., qin, b., & liu, t. (2023). huatuo: tuning llama model with chinese medical knowledge. arxiv preprint arxiv:2304.06975. https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.06975 [49] wei, j., wang, x., schuurmans, d., bosma, m., chi, e., le, q., & zhou, d. (2022). chain of thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. arxiv preprint arxiv:2201.11903. [50] gao, l., madaan, a., zhou, s., alon, u., liu, p., yang, y., ... & neubig, g. (2022). pal: program-aided language models. arxiv preprint arxiv:2211.10435. [51] melchiorre, a. b., zangerle, e., & schedl, m. (2020, september). personality bias of music recommendation 28 algorithms. in proceedings of the 14th acm conference on recommender systems (pp. 533-538). [52] malaeb, m. (2017). recall and precision at k for recommender systems. https://medium.com/@m_n_malaeb/recall-and-precision-at-k-for-recommender-systems-618483226c54 [access on 2023-06-13] [53] xia, x., lo, d., wang, x., & zhou, b. (2013, may). tag recommendation in software information sites. in 2013 10th working conference on mining software repositories (msr) (pp. 287-296). ieee. [54] wang, s., lo, d., vasilescu, b., & serebrenik, a. (2018). entagrec++: an enhanced tag recommendation system for software information sites. empirical software engineering, 23, 800-832. [55] openai (2023). gpt-4 technical report. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2303.08774 [access on 2023-06-13] [56] anthropic (2022). introducing claude. https://www.anthropic.com/index/introducing-claude [access on 2023-06- 13] [57] logan iv, r. l., balaevi, i., wallace, e., petroni, f., singh, s., & riedel, s. (2021). cutting down on prompts and parameters: simple few-shot learning with language models. arxiv preprint arxiv:2106.13353. [58] kojima, t., gu, s. s., reid, m., matsuo, y., & iwasawa, y. (2022). large language models are zero-shot reasoners. arxiv preprint arxiv:2205.11916. [59] ifcopenshell. (2023). ifcopenshell, the open source ifc toolkit and geometry engine. http://ifcopenshell.org/ [access on 2023-06-26] [60] zheng, z., lu, x. z., chen, k. y., zhou, y. c., & lin, j. r. (2022b). pretrained domain-specific language model for natural language processing tasks in the aec domain. computers in industry, 142, 103733. appendix table a presents a comprehensive overview of the atomic function database established in this study, encompassing 66 atomic functions. the functions are classified into eight categories based on their usage, including existence, quantity, geometry, distance, area, space location, window-to-wall ratio, and property. table a introduces the category, type of the return values, function name, and the corresponding description of each atomic function. the atomic function database consists of 5 low- order functions and 61 high-order functions, with the low-order functions distinguished by being highlighted in green. table a overview of the atomic functions database category object output function_name existence sapce space& element space& equipment space& building space& goods boolean/ collection boolean/ collection boolean/ collection boolean/ collection boolean/ collection hasspace(space a,space b) haselement(space a,element b) hasequipment(space a,equipment b) hasbuilding(space a,building b) hasgoods(space a,goods b) descriptio n space a has space b space a has element b space a has equipment b space a has building b space a has goods b 29 space collection hasexternal(space a) element boolean haselement(element a,element b) element& equipment equipment & element equipment & goods building& sapce building& element building& equipment boolean boolean hasequipment(element a,equipment b) haselement(equipment a,element b) boolean hasgoods(equipment a,goods b) boolean hasspace(building a,space b) boolean haselement(building a,element b) boolean hasequipment(building a,equipment b) building boolean hasbuilding(building a,building b) building& goods boolean hasgoods(building a,goods b) building collection hasexternal(building a) space integer getnumberofspace(space a) element integer getnumberofelement(element a) quantity equipment integer getnumberofequipment(equipme nt a) building integer getnumberofbuilding(building a) space float getspacewidth(space a, type b) geometry space float getspaceheight(space a, type b) space float getspacelength(space a, type b) element float getelementwidth(element a, type b) there are several external elements of space a element a has element b element a has equipment b equipment a has element b equipment a has goods b building a has space b building a has element b building a has equipment b building a has building b building a has goods b there are several external elements of building a there are a number of space a there are a number of element a there are a number of equipment a there are a number of building a space a has a width,which is measured by measurement criteria b; space a has a height, which is measured by measurement criteria b; space a has a length, which is measured by measurement criteria b; element a has a width, which is 30 element float getelementheight(element a, type b) element float getelementlength(element a, type b) element boolean isopened(element a) element boolean isevenopened(element a) equipment float getequipmentwidth(equipment a, type b) equipment float getequipmentheight(equipment a, type b) equipment float getequipmentlength(equipment a, type b) building float getbuildingwidth(building a, type b) building float getbuildingheight(building a, type b) building float getbuildinglength(building a, type b) distance sapce float getspacedistance(space a, space b, type c) measured by measurement criteria b; element a has a height, which is measured by measurement criteria b; element a has a length, which is measured by measurement criteria b; does element a have several openings is element a even opened equipment a has a width, which is measured by measurement criteria b; equipment a has a height, which is measured by measurement criteria b; equipment a has a length, which is measured by measurement criteria b; building a has a width, which is measured by measurement criteria b; building a has a height, which is measured by measurement criteria b; building a has a length, which is measured by measurement criteria b; the distance between space a and space b is measured by the 31 space& element float getlineardistance(space a, element b, type c) element float getelementdistance(element a, element b, type c) element& building float getdistance(element a, building b, type c) element& equipment float getdistance(element a, equipment b, type c) equipment float getequipmentdistance(equipment a, equipment b, type c) building float getbuildingdistance(building a, building b, type c) building string getfireproofdistance(building a, building b, type c) measurement criteria c; the distance between a random spot in space a and element b is measured by the measurement criteria types c; the distance between element a and element b is measured by the measurement criteria types c; the distance between element a and building b is measured by the measurement criteria types c; the distance between element a and equipment b is measured by the measurement criteria types c; the distance between equipment a and equipment b is measured by the measurement criteria types c; the distance between building a and building b is measured by the measurement criteria types c; the fireproof distance between building a and building b is 32 space float getfloorarea(space a, type b) area element float getfloorarea(element a, type b) building float getfloorarea(building a, type b) space boolean isaccessible(space a, space b, type c, direction d) space boolean isvisiblefrom(space a, space b, type c) space boolean isadjacent(space a, space b, direction c) space location space& element boolean isadjacent(space a, element b, direction c) space& equipment boolean isadjacent(space a, equipment b, direction c) element boolean isopendirection(element a, type b) element boolean isfaceddirectly(element a, element b) element collection getaccessiblewithspace(space a, direction b, type c) measured by the measurement criteria types c; area of space a is measured by the measurement criteria types b; area of element a is measured by the measurement criteria types b; area of building a is measured by the measurement criteria types b; space a is able to move to space b through moving route types c and directions d; space b is visible from space a through observation route types c; space a is adjacent space b in direction c; space a is adjacent element b in direction c; space a is adjacent equipment b in direction c; the opening direction of component a is type b element a is faced directly to element b get the space that is accessible with space a through moving route 33 equipment boolean isconnectedto(equipment a, equipment b) equipment boolean isgrouparranged(equipment a, equipment b) building boolean isaccessible(building a, building b, type c, direction d) building boolean isadjacent(building a, building b, direction c) building& space boolean isadjacent(building a, space b, direction c) building& equipment boolean isadjacent(building a, equipment b, direction c) building boolean isgrouparranged(building a, building b) window wall ratio element float getwindowwallratio(element a, element b, orientation c) space element property equipment building goods string/float / boolean/ collenction string/float / boolean/ collenction string/float / boolean/ collenction string/float / boolean/ collenction string/float / getproperty(space a, type b) getproperty(element a, type b) getproperty(equipment a, type b) getproperty(building a, type b) getproperty(goods a, type b) types and directions b; equipment a is connected to equipment b equipment a and equipment b are group arranged building a is able to move to building b through moving route types c and directions d; building a is adjacent building b in direction c; building a is adjacent space b in direction c; building a is adjacent equipment b in direction c; building a and building b are group arranged this is the ratio of element a and element b in the four cardinal orientation gets the property b of space a; gets the property b of element a; gets the property b of equipment a; gets the property b of building a; gets the property b of goods a; 34 boolean/ collenction 35

==== TABLES ====
1 % % h l 3.50% igh-order ow-order 7.36 7.23 6.31% 6.11% 4.86% 23% 0% 6% 7% 7% 3. 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.6 1.29% 1.15% 1.13% 1.08% 1.06% 1.06% 1.00% categories function1 function2 function3 property; existence property: getproperty(building a,propertyb) existence: hasspace(building a,spaceb); existence: haselement(space a,elementb); all 8 categories property: getproperty(space a,propertyb) property: getproperty(eleme nta,propertyb) geometry: getelementheight(e lementa,typeb) property; existence; space_location property: getproperty(space a,propertyb) property: getproperty(eleme nta,propertyb) existence: haselement(space a,elementb); property space string/float getproperty(space a, type b) gets the property b of space a; / boolean/ collenction element string/float getproperty(element a, type b) gets the property b of element a; / boolean/ collenction equipment string/float getproperty(equipment a, type b) gets the property b of equipment a; / boolean/ collenction building string/float getproperty(building a, type b) gets the property b of building a; / boolean/ collenction goods string/float / getproperty(goods a, type b) gets the property b of goods a; gets the property b of space a; gets the property b of element a; gets the property b of equipment a; gets the property b of building a; string/float / boolean/ collenction
==== IMAGES ====
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img1.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img2.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img3.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img4.jpeg
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img5.jpeg
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img6.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page7_img7.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page9_img1.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page9_img2.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page9_img3.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page9_img4.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page9_img5.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page9_img6.png
Function Identification for Interpreting Complex Clauses in Building Codes via LLM_page25_img1.png

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from function identification for interpreting complex clauses in building codes via llm_page9_img2.png --- number of safety exits prop --- text from function identification for interpreting complex clauses in building codes via llm_page9_img3.png --- fire protection zone obj --- text from function identification for interpreting complex clauses in building codes via llm_page9_img4.png --- not be less than cmp --- text from function identification for interpreting complex clauses in building codes via llm_page9_img6.png --- the number of safety exits for each fire protection zone shall not be less than am prop obj cmp rprop --- text from function identification for interpreting complex clauses in building codes via llm_page25_img1.png --- based on the provided apidatabase, it seems youre trying to work witha variety of apis ds related to properties and behaviors of spaces, buildings, elements, and equipment within architectural contexts. however, im unclear about your exact requirement for recommending an api. could you please provide more details about your specific use case for example, the type of task or project youre working on, the specific features youre interested in, or any constraints that need to be taken into account. this would help me recommend the most suitable apis for your needs.
