==== TEXT ====
contents lists available at sciencedirect automation in construction journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/autcon knowledge-informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking zhe zheng, yu-cheng zhou, xin-zheng lu, jia-rui lin * department of civil engineering, tsinghua university, beijing 100084, china a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t keywords: automated rule checking (arc) automated compliance checking (acc) rule interpretation natural language processing (nlp) semantic alignment knowledge modeling building information modeling (bim) as an essential prodecure to improve design quality in the construction industry, automated rule checking (arc) requires intelligent rule interpretation from regulatory texts and precise alignment of concepts from different sources. however, there still exists semantic gaps between design models and regulatory texts, hindering the exploitation of arc. thus, a knowledge-informed framework for improved arc is proposed based on natural language processing. within the framework, an ontology is first established to represent domain knowledge, including concepts, synonyms, relationships, constraints, etc. then, semantic alignment and conflict resolution are introduced to enhance the rule interpretation process based on predefined domain knowledge and unsu- pervised learning techniques. finally, an algorithm is developed to identify the proper sparql function for each rule, and then to generate sparql-based queries for model checking purposes, thereby making it possible to interpret complex rules where extra implicit data needs to be inferred. experiments show that the proposed framework and methods successfully filled the semantic gaps between design models and regulatory texts with domain knowledge, which achieves a 90.1% accuracy and substantially outperforms the commonly used keyword matching method. in addition, the proposed rule interpretation method proves to be 5 times faster than the manual interpretation by domain experts. this research contributes to the body of knowledge of a novel framework and the corresponding methods to enhance automated rule checking with domain knowledge. 1. introduction building regulatory documents such as design guidelines, codes, standards, and manuals of practice stipulate the safety, sustainability, and comfort of the entire lifecycle of a built environment [1]. given that extensive human knowledge is needed in the regulation compliance checking process, the building design was checked manually by domain experts for a long time. additionally, subjective judgment is always inevitable in this process, making it impossible to handle massive and heterogeneous building information and regulations effectively and sustainably [2]. therefore, an automated compliance checking (acc) method is critical for a more efficient and consistent checking procedure. to promote the compliance checking process in the architecture, engineering, and construction (aec) industry, automated rule checking (arc, also known as acc) has been extensively studied by many re- searchers, and several arc systems have been established [36]. the rule checking process can be broadly structured into four stages: 1) rule interpretation, which translates rules represented in natural language into a computer-processable format, 2) building model preparation, which prepares the required information for the checking process, 3) rule execution, which checks the prepared model using computer- processable rules, and 4) reporting checking results [3,5]. among the four stages, rule interpretation is the most vital and complex stage that needs extensive investigation [5]. most of the existing arc systems, including corenet emerging from the first large effort of arc in singapore and the widely used solibri model checker (smc), are usually based on hard-coded or manual rule interpretation methods [3]. sometimes, they are referred to as black box approaches because it is difficult to maintain and modify hard-coded rules efficiently [7,8]. therefore, semiautomated and auto- mated methods for interpreting the regulation text into a computer- processable format have been proposed to achieve a flexible, trans- parent, and portable arc process. in the beginning, semiautomated rule interpretation methods, such as the rase methodology [9] were intro- duced to help aec experts analyze the semantic structure of regulatory requirements, and document markup techniques were used to annotate different components of a regulatory requirement. however, these * corresponding author. e-mail address: lin611@tsinghua.edu.cn (j.-r. lin). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2022.104524 received 18 december 2021; received in revised form 21 july 2022; accepted 3 august 2022 automationinconstruction142(2022)104524availableonline11august20220926-5805/2022elsevierb.v.allrightsreserved. z. zheng et al. methods just process text at a coarse granularity level and require considerable human effort to mark regulation documents and create queries or pseudocodes from them. for this reason, natural language processing (nlp), a widely used method for processing and under- standing text-based human language [6], has been introduced to auto- mate rule interpretation from regulatory documents. generally, the nlp-based method for automated rule interpretation consists of two tasks: 1) information extraction, which extracts semantic information from textual building regulatory documents automatically [10,11], and 2) information transformation, which transforms the extracted infor- mation into logic clauses to support reasoning in compliance checking [2,12]. chaining the information extraction and information trans- formation tasks together has enormously facilitated the automated rule interpretation process. to enhance nlp-based methods for different tasks in rule interpretation, techniques, such as ontology, machine learning, and deep learning are introduced to achieve a more compre- hensive understanding of regulatory texts [6]. although many efforts have been made for automated rule inter- pretation, there are still some research gaps. first, as pointed out by some researchers [7,13], to achieve fully automated rule checking, both the regulations and the bim models should use the same concepts and relations to define and describe the same objects, i.e., the two repre- sentations should speak the same language. however, different terms and modeling paradigms may be adopted when dealing with regulatory documents and bim models. that is, there exists a semantic gap between design models and regulatory documents. therefore, an extra step called semantic alignment is needed to determine correspondences between different concepts and relations in regulations and bim models. in pre- vious studies, the methods for aligning the concepts and relations in computer-interpretable regulations with those in ontologies or bims were mainly based on keyword matching [10,11] or handcrafted map- ping tables [2]. researchers may make a huge effort to construct map- ping tables containing all aliases, abbreviations, alternate spellings, etc. for instance, designers may use the alias fire partition wall to represent the concept firewall. if the alias of a concept is not contained in the mapping table, then the semantic alignment process will fail. therefore, a more robust and flexible method for automated semantic alignment is required. second, when mapping the extracted information into plain description logic clauses, such as the horn clause [12], the b-prolog representation [10,11], or the deontic logic (dl) clauses [2], hidden domain knowledge is required to infer implicit relationships, data types, and properties. due to lack of domain knowledge, many queries in the aec domain are hampered by implicit required relationships and properties that are difficult to retrieve [14]. it is important to incorpo- rate domain knowledge into the rule interpretation process. in addition, the widely used b-prolog representation and dl clauses have difficulty dealing with implicitly defined quantity information. for example, in- formation such as "room a" containing "safe exit b" and "safe exit c" is explicitly stored in a bim model, while the number of safe exits con- tained in "room a" is implicit information that requires additional cal- culations. therefore, the logical representation of complex rules or high- order information is needed. to address the abovementioned problems, this research proposes a novel knowledge-informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation framework for arc. domain knowledge, such as equivalent concepts, constraints, and relationships are modeled based on ontology, which are further utilized in three folds to enhance the arc processes: 1) auto- mated alignment of regulations concepts with those in ontology based on semantic similarity, 2) improving the accuracy of rule interpretation by detecting and resolving potential conflicts of rules, and 3) generating information based on sparql complex automatically. rules with implicit the remainder of this paper is organized as follows: section 2 re- views the related studies and highlights the potential research gaps. section 3 describes the knowledge-informed framework for arc pro- posed in this research. the proposed algorithms and methods are also explained in this section. section 4 illustrates and analyzes the results of the experiments. section 5 demonstrates the application of this frame- work. section 6 discusses the advantages and contributions of this research, while also summarizes potential limitations. finally, section 7 concludes this research. 2. overview of related studies 2.1. nlp-based automated regulatory document interpretation arc methods and systems have been extensively studied in recent decades with the increasing maturity and adoption of bim [4,15] since decision tables were first utilized to check structural design against building codes [16]. however, for the existing arc systems, intensive manual efforts are still needed in the rule interpretation stages [3]. therefore, to make the rule interpretation stage more efficient and transparent, numerous automated rule interpreting methods have been proposed. in recent years, nlp algorithms that can achieve a comprehensive understanding of a text [6] have been utilized to develop automated rule interpreting methods. nlp algorithms can be mainly divided into two approaches: the handwritten rules approach and the statistical approach [17]. the former depends on symbolic human-defined pattern-matching rules, including backus-naur form (bnf) notation, regular expression syntax, and prolog language. the latter automatically builds probabi- listic "rules" from training datasets (e.g., large annotated bodies of text) similar to machine-learning algorithms, including support vector ma- chines (svms), hidden markov models (hmms), conditional random fields (crfs), and nave bayes [17]. in the aec industry, zhang & el- gohary pointed out that domain-specific regulatory text is more suit- able for automated nlp than general nontechnical text (e.g., news ar- ticles, general websites) because the regulatory text has fewer homonym conflicts and fewer coreference resolution problems. additionally, the ontology for a specific domain is easier to develop as opposed to those that capture general knowledge of multiple domains [12]. domain ontology is able to provide a shared vocabulary among the parties by defining abstract concepts and relationships, including the taxonomy of concepts, equivalent and disjoint concepts, and enumerations of termi- nologies. as such, raw data is provided with explicit meaning, making it easier for machines to automatically process and integrate data through ontology [18]. a domain ontology may enhance the automated inter- pretability and understandability of domain-specific text [12]. there- fore, in the aec industry, many studies in terms of nlp-based automated rule interpreting methods have adopted rule-based and ontology-based approaches [6]. for example, zhang & el-gohary [10,12] proposed an automated rule interpretation method mainly consisting of three pro- cessing phases: 1) text classification, which recognizes relevant sen- tences in a regulatory text corpus; 2) information extraction, which extracts the words and phases in the relevant sentences based on pattern-matching-based information extraction rules and ontology; 3) information transformation, which transforms the extracted information into the horn clauses or the b-prolog representation using regular expression-based mapping rules. zhou & el-gohary [11] proposed a rule-based ontology-enhanced information extraction method for extracting building energy requirements from energy conservation codes, and then formatted the extracted information into a b-prolog representation. zhou et al. [20] proposed a novel fuly automated rule extraction method based on a deep learning model and a set of context- free grammars (cfgs), which can interpret regulatory rules into pseu- docode formats automatically with high generality, accuracy, and interpretability. xu and cai [2] proposed an ontology and rule-based nlp framework to automate the interpretation of utility regulations into deontic logic (dl) clauses, where pattern-matching rules are used for information extraction; pre-learned model and domain-specific hand-crafted mapping methods were also adopted for semantic align- ment between rules and ontology. automationinconstruction142(2022)1045242 z. zheng et al. 2.2. semantic alignment methods for arc most of the studies focusing on information extraction assumed that the concepts and relations in regulatory documents were consistent with those in design models. however, this was not the case in most of the scenarios. to achieve full automated rule checking, both the regulations and the design models (including bims, and their equivalent ontologies) should use the same concepts and relations to define and describe the same objects, i.e., the two representations should speak the same lan- guage [7,13]. thus, the semantic alignment in arc aims to map the extracted named entities in the text to the corresponding concepts in the knowl- edge base (e.g., ontology, knowledge graph) to facilitate the under- standing of the text [21,22]. in the existing studies of arc, the methods for aligning and mapping the concepts and relations in computer- interpretable regulations to those in ontologies or bims are mainly rule-based approaches, such as exhaustive usage of keyword matching [10,11] and handcrafted mapping tables [2]. however, semantic alignment methods have been widely researched [21] in other domains and could be divided into three types of ap- proaches: 1) rule-based methods, 2) supervised learning methods, and 3) unsupervised learning methods. rule-based methods utilize dictionary- based look-up and string-matching algorithms [23] or hand-written rules to measure the morphological similarity between extracted words and ontology concepts [24]. for string-matching algorithms, large efforts are involved in the construction of a large name dictionary containing aliases, abbreviations, alternate spellings, etc. [21]. if an alias of a concept is not contained in the mapping table, then the se- mantic alignment process will fail. for hand-written rules, human efforts are involved to define text patterns and pattern-matching rules for se- mantic alignment. the supervised learning methods learn the similar- ities between extracted words and ontology concepts from labeled training data. in recent years, some open datasets for model training have been developed; therefore, deep learning-based semantic align- ment methods have been investigated [25]. while this kind of ap- proaches eliminates human involvement in pattern definition, it still requires considerable manual effort to prepare a training dataset [2] because there are few open datasets that contain domain-specific en- tities in the construction domain. unsupervised methods, such as word embedding models, can learn distributed representations of words from large unlabeled corpora and are promising approaches for capturing semantic information [22]. unsupervised methods require less human effort in the data preparation stage than the former two types of methods. 2.3. research gaps despite a large number of efforts for automated interpretation of regulatory documents , there are still some limitations in the following two main aspects. first, in the construction domain, the methods for semantic align- ment are mainly based on rule-based methods in the existing studies, which are mainly hard-coded rules and hard to generalize. in addition, constructing mapping tables containing all aliases, abbreviations, and alternate spellings requires a large amount of effort. second, the existing studies mainly focus on interpreting the rules expressed by natural language into pseudocode or plain description logic. the pseudocode formats are still difficult to directly reason by computers [2]. the studies utilizing plain description logic mainly focus on the logical representation of some simple rules. complex rules with implicit relationships and properties are usually ignored. one typical example is the number of stories in a factory should not exceed 2. when the number of stories is not explicitly stored in the bim model, the number of stories should be derived through aggregation functions via counting the floor objects. however, the counting ability of plain description logic language (e.g., the first order logic) is very limited [19]. it is difficult to derive the implicit information required for rule checking. there are two main obstacles when interpreting complex rules. on one hand, the representability of the widely used plain description logical clauses is limited for representing complex rules with implicit attributes that need additional reasoning. on the other hand, additional efforts are needed to automatically choose the proper information transformation methods for different regulatory texts. for example, regulatory texts that requires counting functions to infer implicit in- formation should be first identified. thus, text classification is usually used to classify regulatory texts for further processing. zhou & el- gohary [10,11] adopted a text classification method to filter out irrel- evant text. however, the existing text classification studies mainly focus on the intended scopes and applications at a coarse granularity level (e. g., relevant or irrelevant), so they cannot be used to choose the proper information transformation method to be utilized for each rule. 3. methodology and framework to address the abovementioned problems, a novel knowledge- informed framework for arc based on nlp techniques is proposed, as illustrated in fig. 1. the proposed framework consists of four parts: ontology-based knowledge modeling, model preparation with semantic enrichement, enhanced rule interpretation, and checking execution. based on the including the framework, three new methods, unsupervised-based semantic alignment method, the conflict resolution method, and the code generation method that supports the interpreta- tion of a wider range of rules, are proposed. the main contributions of this work are highlighted in fig. 1. first, we introduce the four parts of the proposed framework. 1. ontology-based knowledge modeling. this part is the basis of the proposed framework, and the domain-specific concepts, properties, relations, and descriptions related to regulatory documents are in- tegrated into the ontology. in addition, a set of model semantic enrichment rules in model preparation and conflict resolution rules in rule interpretation can be established based on domain-specific knowledge. 2. model preparation with semantic enrichment. since ifc (industry foundation classes) is supported by a wide range of bim software [26], it is utilized for data exchange and improve the scalability of arc systems. however, the ifc file cannot be directly parsed by the reasoning engine, thus requiring further model conversion and enrichment. this part aims to automatically convert the bim model in ifc format into the turtle (terse rdf triple language) format based on the proposed ontology, the ifc parsing method, and the ontology mapping method. moreover, a set of semantic model enrichment rules are adopted to infer the implicit information and supply missing information in the turtle model before the checking process. the model preparation pipeline consists of model conver- sion and model enrichment, as shown in fig. 1. the details of the model preparation pipeline are illustrated in appendix a. 3. ehanced rule interpretation. in this part, the rules are automatically interpreted into a computer-executable format based on a pipeline of nlp-based methods, including preprocessing, semantic labeling, parsing, semantic alignment, conflict resolution, and code genera- tion. first, preprocessing aims to preprocess these sentences by sentence splitting to facilitate later work. semantic labeling aims to label words or phrases in a sentence. subsequently, the parsing step parses the labeled sentence into a language-independent syntax tree. the semantic alignment automatically aligns the concepts in the syntax tree to those in the ontology based on unsupervised learning techniques, such as the word2vec technique. then, a set of conflict resolution rules are utilized to revise the alignment result. finally, the code generation step aims to transform the syntax tree after alignment into computer-executable code. automationinconstruction142(2022)1045243 z. zheng et al. fig. 1. the proposed nlp-based and knowledge-informed automated rule checking framework. 4. checking execution. finally, automated compliance checking is performed through a reasoning engine, such as protege and graphdb [27]. to better illustrate the proposed knowledge-informed arc frame- work, the regulatory texts from section 3 of the chinese code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 500162014) [30] are selected as an example. gb 500162014 [30] is the chinese national fire code that restricts the shape, properties, requirements for safe evacuation, and so on of buildings. the regulatory texts of section 3 in gb 500162014 [30] are related to the fire safety of factories. first, a new ontology and a set of rules are developed to integrate domain knowledge (section 3.1). then, the automated rule interpretation method is illustrated in section 3.2. note that the model preparation part is not the core of this work, so it will be briefly introduced in appendix a. for the checking execution stage, this work implements an automated rule checking system based on python and graphdb (section 5). 3.1. ontology-based knowledge modeling to integrate domain-specific knowledge and concepts, the fire pro- tection for building ontology (fpbo) was developed. in addition, domain-range constraints and equivalent classes for conflict resolution and rules for semantic enrichment are also established based on the fpbo and domain knowledge. 3.1.1. classes for the building information domain, some concepts and hierarchi- cal relations in ifcowl [28] and building topology ontology [29] are referred to in the creation of the fpbo. for the fire protection domain, the concepts and relations are extracted and summarized from gb 500162014 [30]. a semiautomated ontology construction method proposed by qiu et al. [31] was adopted. based on the regulatory corpus, the concepts were first extracted using statistics-based methods (e.g., term frequency inverse document frequency), and the top 500 words with the highest score were extracted. then, the semantic clustering method is used to merge the domain words. if the similarity (i.e., word2vec-based similarity) of two clusters is higher than a certain value (0.6 in this work), then merge the two clusters. a total of 183 clusters are obtained. then, the subsumption method is used to build the taxonomy structure in each clustering. the basic idea is that concept c1 is considered more specific than concept c2 if the document set in which c1 occurs is the subset of the document set in which c2 occurs [31]. after the subsumption method, the typical taxonomy structure is that the first level includes building and the second level includes plant, ware- house, residence, etc. finally, the concepts and hierarchy of the ontology were manually adjusted and supplemented. the semi- automated method reduces the manual effort in keywords searching and clustering. finally, the fpbo was created in protege [32]. fig. 2 illus- trates part of the structure of the fpbo. the classes are represented by blue boxes in fig. 2. the classes of buildingspatialelement and building- componentelement are the central concepts of the fpbo. buildingspatia- lelement, representing the general space that has a 3d spatial extent related to the building domain, is further categorized into four sub- classes: buildingsite, buildingregion, buildingstorey, and buildingspace. buildingcomponentelement represents the essential elements in archi- tecture and structural engineering, such as beams, columns, walls, and doors. 3.1.2. properties and their constraints object properties (e.g., hasbuildingspatialelement, hasbuildingele- ment) are also introduced in the fpbo to establish the relationships between buildingspatialelement and buildingcomponentelement. the ob- ject properties are represented by blue arrows in fig. 2. key terms in the fire protection domain are defined as data properties, such as hasfir- eresistancelimit_hour representing fire resistance rating. the data prop- erties are represented by orange arrows in fig. 2. in addition, the domains and ranges of the data properties and object properties have been defined, which could be used for conflict resolution when gener- ating rules from texts. part of the domains and ranges of the properties are shown in fig. 2. for example, the domain of the data property isfirewall_boolean is class wall, and its range is a bool value. other situations are not allowed. for another example, the range of the data property hasfirehazardcategory only includes the following values: class a, b, c, d, and e. these values also uniquely correspond to the data property hasfirehazardcategory. the ranges of the properties are defined using the proteges function data range expression, and the result of the data property hasfirehazardcategory is shown in fig. 2. the range of the data property hasnumberoffloors is also defined using the same method, and the range values are shown in table 1. 3.1.3. descriptions and equivalent classes different vocabularies in natural language may be used by various regulatory documents to describe the same concept. for instance, automationinconstruction142(2022)1045244 z. zheng et al. fig. 2. structure of the fire protection of building ontology. table 1 domain-range conflict resolution dictionary. key (original concept of the node) range of the concept isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean issecurityexits_boolean isfirewall_boolean hasfirehazardcategory hasnumberoffloors true/false true/false true/false class a, class b, class c, class d, class e single-story, multiple-story value ([new concept of the node, new word of the node, concept of its sub-node, word of its sub-node, the value of its sub node]) [buildingspace, building space, isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean, is fire compartment, true] [doors, door, issecurityexits_boolean, is safe exit, true] [wall, wall, isfirewall_boolean, is fire wall, true] / / different terms, such as fire partition wall and firewall are often used to refer to the same concept firewall. therefore, we define three types of descriptions (or metadata in some literatures), including names, aliases, and definitions for each concept via annotations. each concept has one name, one definition which contains one or two short sentences, and zero to two aliases. a total of 287 descriptions are defined for 138 concepts. since the aliases of the concepts are difficult to summarize completely, the definitions and semantic similarity matching methods are utilized in concept semantic alignment between rules and the fpbo. a typical example (e.g., the description of the column) of a description is shown in the orange box in fig. 2. in addition, the equivalent classes are also considered in the fpbo for describing the same concept. the equivalent classes are defined by some logic rules, shown in the gray box in fig. 2. for example, the class: firewall = class: wall + data prop- erty: isfirewall_boolean + value: true. 3.1.4. semantic enrichment rules missing, incomplete, implicit, and incorrect information are major obstacles to automated code compliance checking in the construction industry [33]. thus, semantic enrichment should be performed to infer the implicit information and supply the missing information before beginning the checking process. in this work, since most of the attributes have been supplemented via the ifc conversion process and the con- structed ontology, only a few topological relations between the objects need to be inferred. therefore, a series of semantic enrichment swrl rules are defined based on the fpbo. the defined swrl rules aim to derive implicit spatial relationships, e.g., which building spaces and building components are contained in a building. the detailed swrl rules are illustrated in appendix a. 3.2. rule interpretation this step aims to automatically interpret the domain regulatory texts expressed in natural language into computer-processable codes based on a pipeline of nlp techniques, including preprocessing (see section 3.2.1), semantic labeling and parsing (see section 3.2.2), semantic alignment (see section 3.2.3), conflict resolution (see section 3.2.4), and code generation (see section 3.2.5). fig. 3 shows an example of the proposed automated rule interpretation method. 3.2.1. preprocessing preprocessing aims to preprocess these sentences by sentence split- ting to facilitate later work. sentence splitting is a rule-based, deter- ministic consequence of tokenization [34]. a sentence ends when automationinconstruction142(2022)1045245 z. zheng et al. fig. 3. example illustrating the processing of automated rule interpretation. sentence-ending punctuation (.,!, or?) occurs. thus, a regulatory docu- ment can be split into single sentences by identifying these boundary indicators of a sentence. 3.2.2. semantic labeling and parsing sentence labeling and parsing aim to extract and parse the internal structure of a text represented in natural language and transform it into a syntax tree. semantic labeling is the process of assigning semantic labels to words or phrases in a sentence. zhang et al. and zhou et al. [20,35] pointed out that accurate and complete annotation and information extraction involve a deep level of semantic information analysis that requires a complete understanding of building code requirement sentences. some requirement sentences are rich and complex in semantics and syntactic, which are challenging for conventional methods (e.g., pos tagging, gazetteer lookup). to better extract the features of the sentences, the authors [20] defined seven semantic labels, including obj, sobj, prop, cmp, rprop, arprop, and robj, based on the hierarchical structure of the objects and attributes in the bim model. the sobj (short for super object), obj (short for object), and prop (short for property) labels are used to locate and identify elements to be checked, but the differences are their levels. the sobj is the parent node of obj, while the prop is the child node of obj. the cmp (short for compare) means the comparative/ existential relation between a prop and a requirement. the rprop is the automationinconstruction142(2022)1045246 z. zheng et al. restriction requirement applied to a prop that shall be satisfied. the arprop is the applicability applied to a prop, and the rule checking will be performed if the applicability of an object is satisfied. robj is the parent or refereed element of a rprop or arprop [20]. then, the authors used the state-of-the-art dnn pretrained model bert [36] for automated semantic annotation to better capture the deep semantics of the sentences. the meanings of each semantic label and training process of the dnn model have been depicted in detail in pre- vious work [20]. in this work, the predefined labels and the well-trained model are still utilized. parsing is the process of analyzing the structure of a labeled sentence and parsing it into the syntax tree. the domain-specific regulation text is more regular (e.g., less ambiguity and fewer homonym conflicts) than general nontechnical text; thus, it is more suitable for parsing with se- mantic labels [12]. there are two commonly used grammars according to the chomsky hierarchy: cfg (type-2) and regular grammar (type-3) [37]. the authors [20] adopted cfg because cfg has higher expres- siveness and can be obtained by simpler regular expressions. the au- thors used the antlr4 package [38] and the python language to implement the parsing process. the proposed method achieves state-of- the-art high accuracies for parsing simple and complex sentences. in this work, the parsing method is still utilized. note that the syntax tree is still not computer-executable, further steps, including semantic alignment, conflict resolution, and code generation, are required to achieve the whole interpretation. 3.2.3. semantic alignment semantic alignment aims to map the labeled elements in the text to the corresponding concepts in the knowledge base (e.g., ontology, knowledge graph) to facilitate the understanding of the text [21,22]. in this study, semantic alignment maps the extracted semantic elements in each node of the aforementioned syntax tree to the concepts in the fpbo, i.e., classes and data properties defined in section 3.1. an example of semantic alignment is shown in fig. 3, where the classes and data properties are represented as red and green circles, respectively. the dashed line means there are conflicts in the alignment results, and the downstream task conflict resolution should be performed on them. the methods of semantic alignment include rule-based methods, supervised learning methods, and unsupervised learning methods. there are few open datasets that contain domain-specific entities in the con- struction domain. therefore, large efforts are required to manually annotate a sufficiently large amount of training data for supervised learning methods. analogous to supervised learning methods, rule- based methods also require large efforts in the construction of a large and comprehensive name dictionary containing aliases, abbreviations, alternate spellings, etc. [21]. given that huge efforts are needed to build datasets and dictionaries for the construction domain, this study adopts an unsupervised learning-based method, which only needs less effort than the other types of methods. the unsupervised learning-based approach adopted in this work assumes that semantically similar words usually have similar vector spaces. the workflow of the semantic similarity measurement between a named entity and a concept is shown in fig. 4. for each named entity in the syntax tree, the semantic similarity between the named entity and all the ontology concepts is measured, and then the ontology concept with the highest similarity score is assigned as the normalized concept to the named entity. as each concept has several descriptions, the similarity between the named entity and each description of the concept is calculated first, and then the average similarity value of all descriptions is taken as the semantic similarity between the concept and the target named entity. to measure the semantic similarity between one description and the target named entity, the multiword named entity and description are preprocessed, including tokenizing, word splitting, and stopping word removal, before two composing wordlists are generated. each word in the wordlist is represented as a real-valued vector using a pretrained unsupervised learning model illustrated later. for the multiword named entity and description, the vector rep- resentations are computed by weighted average of the vectors of their composing words. two widely used weighted methods, the average weighted method and the td-idf (term frequency-inverse document fig. 4. flow chart of semantic similarity measurement between a named entity and a concept. automationinconstruction142(2022)1045247annotated named entitytakeone of the concepts descriptionsimilarityword list1word list2tokenize &remove stop wordssimilarity measurementone conceptaverage similaritysum similaritydescriptionsremain?yesno z. zheng et al. frequency) weighted method [39], are used. finally, a cosine similarity score is assigned as the semantic similarity between the entity and the description. in this work, the adopted unsupervised learning model is the word embedding model [40]. the open-source toolkit gensim [41] is used to train the word embedding model with dimensions of 400 according to previous research [42,43]. the training corpus is composed of the chi- nese corpus from wikimedia [44] and 1560 chinese code corpora from the website of the chinese codes [45]. on the one hand, the corpus of the domain-related code corpus is too small to cover some frequently used words. on the other hand, the chinese corpus from wikimedia has few domain-related words. the performance of the models trained using two corpora is better than using only one of them [46]. therefore, the model has been trained using the two corpora above. in addition, we also choose two dictionary-based keyword matching methods as the baseline, including the keyword matching method (kw) and the weighted keyword matching method (kw-weighted). for kw, if a named entity completely matches one of the descriptions of an ontology concept, it is assigned as the normalized concept. for kw- weighted, in the descriptions of an ontology concept, the shorter the length of the description, the more information it contains, and the higher the correlation with the term. based on the above ideas, formula (1) can measure the similarity between a named entity and a concept as follows: similarity = 1 * n ( n n=i (cid:0) log similarityi (cid:0) len termdescriptioni ) ) ) (1) where similarityi indicates the similarity between the named entity and the number i description of a concept. if the named entity is the same as the number i description, the value of similarityi equals 1; if the named entity is the substring of the number i description, the value of similarityi equals 0.6, and the rest equals 0. the denominator is the log value of the string length of description i. the similarity between the named entity and the concept is the average of the similarity values of the concepts descriptions. 3.2.4. conflict resolution conflict resolution refers to modifying the semantic alignment re- sults according to the domain knowledge of civil engineering. it is necessary to ensure that the regulations and the models use the same concepts and relations to define and describe the same objects. as a result, two types of conflict resolution methods, the domain-range conflict resolution and the equivalent class conflict resolution, are pro- posed based on domain knowledge. for the domain-range conflict resolution method, the domains and ranges of the data properties and object properties are defined in section 3.1. for example, the range of a concept whose type is a data property cannot be an object. otherwise, the wrong situation where an attribute value has an object may occur, which violates the definition of the bim model. another situation is when the range of some data properties must only be certain values. for example, the range of the data property hasfirehazardcategory only includes the following values: class a, b, c, d, and e. these values also uniquely correspond to the data property hasfirehazardcategory. this means that we can identify the data property according to its range if the data property is missing in the text. the results of semantic alignment can be identified and checked ac- cording to ranges of data properties and object properties, and are further modified via the domain-range conflict resolution dictionary (table 1). the domain-range conflict resolution dictionary was extrac- ted from fpbo. if the wrong semantic alignment results are identified according to the range of a concept, then the information of correct fig. 5. example depicting the processing of conflict resolution (in the square brackets, the plain words are in black font, the classes in fpbo are in red font, and the data properties in fpbo are in green font). the red dashed circles show the conflicts in the original sentences. the conflict resolution results are bolded.) (for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the online version of this article.) automationinconstruction142(2022)1045248(a) (b) (c) ifais[firecompartment:isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean]ifahasobjb&bis[column:column]thenbsprop[fireresistancelimit:hasfireresistancelimits_hour]  [1.5##h]ifais[buildingspace:buildingspace]ifahasprop[isfirecompartment:isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean]=[true]ifahasobjb&bis[column:column]thenbsprop[fireresistancelimit:hasfireresistancelimits_hour]  [1.5##h]domain-rangeconflictifais[building:buildingregion]ifahasprop[?:?]=[classa]ifais[building:buildingregion]ifahasprop[firehazardcategory:hasfirehazardcategory]=[classa]domain-rangeconflictifais[firewall:firewall]thenasprop[fireresistancelimit:hasfireresistancelimits_hour]  [3##h]ifais[wall:wall]ifahasprop[isfirewall:isfirewall_boolean]=[true]thenasprop[fireresistancelimit:hasfireresistancelimits_hour]  [3##h]equivalentclassconflict z. zheng et al. concepts can be determined by keyword matching with the wrong concept as the key; afterward, the syntax tree structure can be modified. the specific case is shown in fig. 5(a). the root entity fire compartment is aligned to isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean, which is a data prop- erty. the range of the data property cannot have an object column. therefore, the original semantic alignment result is wrong. then, the syntax tree is modified according to table 1. if the text that relates to the data property is missing in the original text, we can identify it and complement the missing value according to the range of the data property. the specific case is shown in fig. 5(b). the missing data property hasfirehazardcategory is supplemented via the range value class a. for the equivalent class conflict resolution method, equivalent classes are also defined in fpbo. since the ifc model contains the most basic concepts, we propose an equivalent concept conflict resolution method based on the decomposition of concepts using equivalent clas- ses. based on domain knowledge, some complex concepts in the regu- lations can be defined as the combination of basic concepts. for example: class: firewall = class: wall + data property: isfir- ewall_boolean + value: true. to identify this kind of conflict or mismatch, an equivalent concept conflict resolution dictionary is established according to the fpbo equivalent classes, as shown in table 2. if the complex concepts are identified according to the key in table 2, then the information of a series of simple concepts can be determined by keyword matching with the key; afterward, the syntax tree structure can also be modified. the specific case is shown in fig. 5 (c). the complex class firewall is decomposed into the simple class wall and the data property isfirewall_boolean. 3.2.5. code generation after semantic alignment and conflict resolution, the code genera- tion step is conducted to transform the syntax tree into a computer- processable format. to support a wider application range for checking rules covering implicit information, a new code generation method enhanced by text classification is proposed. text classification is intro- duced to identify proper sparql functions which could be used to infer implicit information for complex regulatory texts. considering its ability in reasoning implicit information, the sparql [47,48] language is selected. text classification aims to classify sentences into different categories based on semantics and is an important step for text analysis [49,50]. salama [50] classifies regulation documents into 14 predefined cate- gories, including security, safety, health, etc., depending on the objec- tive of the document. solihin et al. [49] classified the regulatory text into four categories according to the complexity and suitability of the tools or techniques required, as shown in table 3. following the above two classification works, this study proposes new classification categories that can consider the computability of the text. the categories and their definitions are shown in table 3. different categories of rules are sub- sequently processed using different code generation techniques. for example, the rules of class 2 may require additional reasoning functions, such as the aggregated algebra provided by sparql. to date, several methods have been proposed for automated text classification. for example, caldas et al. [51] developed an automated text classification system based on traditional machine learning methods, such as the rocchio algorithm, nave bayes, k-nearest table 2 equivalent concept conflict resolution dictionary. key (original concept of the node) value ([new concept of the node, new word of the node, concept of its sub-node, word of its sub-node, the value of its sub node]) firewall plant [wall, wall, isfirewall_boolean, is fire wall, true] [buildingregion, building, hasbuildingtype, has the building type of, plant] table 3 rule categories. [49] ours class 1: rules that require a single or small number of explicit data class 2: rules that require simple derived attribute values class 3: rules that require an extended data structure class 4: rules that require a proof of solution class 1: direct attribute related requirement (description: rules that require only explicit data in bim model) class 2: indirect attribute related requirement (description: rules that require simple derived values from explicit data in bim model) class 2.1: quantity attribute related requirement class 2.2 other complex indirect attribute related requirement class 3: spatial geometry related requirement (description: rules that require extended data structure and complex derivation, such as geometric computing) class 4: others (description: rules which is hard to be automated interpreted) neighbors, and svms. salama [50] classified documents based on ma- chine learning methods, such as nave bayes, maximum entropy, and svms. this study adopts a classification method based on keyword matching and semantic ranking, as text classification techniques are not the focus of this paper and machine learning methods depend on large datasets that require very expensive manual labeling. in this work, we first define a table of keywords for classification. part of the keywords is shown in table 4. a regulatory text is classified into a specific category if it contains a keyword of the category. a text may contain more than one keyword, resulting in overlapping classifications. therefore, a classifi- cation priority for semantic ranking is defined as follows: class 3 > class 2.2 > class 2.1 > class 1 > class 4. the results of the automated text classification are shown in section 4. after the proper sparql functions for the rules are identified by the text classification method, the syntax trees are transformed into sparql by pattern-matching rules. according to the sparql syntax [47,48], during the transformation, the following three aspects should be noted, as shown in fig. 6. 1. prefix. the prefix is the sparql instruction for a declaration of a namespace prefix which defines the source of the adopted functions. the prefix should be written at the beginning of a sparql file. it allows us to write prefixed names in queries instead of having to use full uris everywhere. therefore, it is a syntax convenience mecha- nism for shorter, easier-to-read (and write) queries. 2. aggregate algebra. aggregate algebra is a set of predefined function provided by sparql, which supports counting and other aggregate functions. according to the text classification, except for the rules of class 1 that describe requirements on explicitly specified attributes, the data required for checking other categories of rules cannot be directly obtained from the turtle file, and additional derivations are needed. in this work, for the rules of class 2 which require implicitly specified attributes, the aggregate algebra provided by sparql can be used to derive some implicit data from explicit data in the bim table 4 keywords for rule categories. class keywords (in chinese) class 1: direct attribute related requirement class 2.1: quantity attribute related length, width, height, thickness, depth, span, precision number, times requirement class 2.2 other complex indirect attribute area, volume related requirement class 3: spatial geometry related distance requirement class 4: others automationinconstruction142(2022)1045249 z. zheng et al. fig. 6. sparql syntax to be noted during the transformation process. model. for example, the explicit data in the bim model are that fire compartment a has safety exits a, b, and c. the indirect attribute related requirement: the number of safety exits for each fire compartment is not less than 2 can be checked using the count provided by sparql. the code (count(distinct? safe- ty_exit) as? safety_exit_num) can derive and store the number of safety exits, which is implicit data, in ?safety_exit_num, to realize automated rule checking. 3. object property mapping. object property mapping is to establish the relationship between the two objects queried. for example, space a contains element b. the contains is expressed through the object property hasbuildingelement. if there is no object property, the relationship between space a and element b could not be reasoned, resulting in a failed query. the object property between the two classes can be uniquely determined by a hashmap generated from fpbo, with the name of the domain class and the range class of an object property. 4. experiments and results this section describes the experiment conducted to validate the proposed method. first, several compulsory regulation texts are selected from gb 500162014 [30]. the gold standards of concept alignment and text classification are manually developed. second, various automated semantic alignment methods are compared and evaluated based on the gold standard. third, the results of automated text classification are compared with the gold standard. finally, the time consumed by the proposed automated rule interpretation method is compared with the time consumed by the experts manual rule interpretation method. 4.1. dataset development the regulatory texts from section 3 in the chinese code for fire pro- tection design of buildings (gb 500162014)[30] are selected as the data source. first, the rules represented in figures are transformed into nat- ural language. then, the regulatory text on building codes is split into single sentences by semicolons, periods, and newlines. next, these sen- tences are classified by experts according to the rule categories in table 3 to form the gold standard for the automated text classification method. then, the semantic alignments of the selected sentences are manually developed according to the fpbo to form the gold standard for the automated semantic alignment method. finally, 27 types of semantic alignment tags are established, and the dataset contains 99 sentences and 468 semantic alignment labels. a repository containing the dataset is established on github and can be found at https://github.com/ skydustz/auto-rule-transform. 4.2. semantic alignment result to evaluate the performance of automated semantic alignment methods, the model predictions are compared with those from the gold standard. accuracy and running time are employed as evaluation indices, and the results are shown in table 5. table 5 shows that the baseline algorithm kw achieves the lowest accuracy of 55.8%, and the kw-weighted algorithm achieves an accuracy of 65.2%, which is just a little higher than kw. the accuracy of methods based on semantic similarity (e.g., w2v-avg, w-tfidf, and wmd) is higher. the proposed semantic similarity and conflict resolution algorithm achieve the best accuracy of 90.1%. the kw-based algorithms only consider the morphological similarity between the named entities and the fpbo concepts, but they do not consider the semantic information contained in the descriptions or metadata of a concept. in addition, different vo- cabularies in natural language may be used by various regulatory doc- uments to describe the same concept. for instance, different terms, such as fire partition wall and firewall are often used to refer to the same concept of a firewall. once the synonyms and aliases of a concept are not defined in the ontology, the kw-based methods cannot align the concept well. however, semantic similarity-based methods can measure the semantic similarity of two concepts, even if they differ greatly in morphology. the analysis of the mis-classifications by semantic similarity-based methods suggests two main reasons for this. first, the named entity composed of more than one concept is difficult to distin- guish. for example, the named entity fire protection zone is mistakenly aligned to the data property isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean in the fpbo. however, it should be aligned to the class buildingspace with the data property isfireprotectionsubdivision_boolean, and the value of the data property should be true. second, its hard to recognize the ab- breviations or implicit concepts in the regulatory text. for example, two-story house is the abbreviation of the number of floors in the house is 2. the two in the phrase two-story should be the value of the data property hasnumberoffloors. the semantic similarity-based methods cannot align the named entity two-story with the data property hasnumberoffloors with a value of 2. another example is that plant in class a" is the abbreviation of the plant with the fire hazard table 5 performance of different semantic alignment methods. method kw kw-weighted w2v-avg w2v-tfidf wmd w2v-avg + conflict resolution accuracy 55.8% 65.2% 77.6% 77.0% 73.0% 90.1% time 6.83 s 5.10 s 25.8 s 33.9 s 44.9 s 75.0 s automationinconstruction142(2022)10452410prefix rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#>select?class_buildingregion_1 ?class_buildingregion_1_id (count(distinct ?class_buildingstorey_2) as?class_buildingstorey_2_num)where{?class_buildingregion_1 rdf:typemyclass:buildingregion.?class_buildingregion_1 :hasglobalid?class_buildingregion_1_id .?class_buildingstorey_2 rdf:typemyclass:buildingstorey.?class_buildingstorey_2 :hasglobalid?class_buildingstorey_2_id .?class_buildingregion_1 :hasbuildingspatialelement?class_buildingstorey_2 .}having(?class_buildingstorey_2_num <= 2)order by desc (?class_buildingstorey_2_num)1.prefix2.aggregate algebra3.object property mapping z. zheng et al. category in class a". class a" is the value of the data property hasfir- ehazardcategory. the semantic similarity-based methods cannot align class a" with the data property hasfirehazardcategory with a value of class a. both the first and second types of mis-classifications can be identified and corrected based on the conflict resolution methods pro- posed in section 3.2.4. the proposed semantic similarity and conflict resolution method not only considers the semantics of a single word but also considers the information of the whole sentence structure and domain knowledge. therefore, mis-classifications are found and cor- rected according to the established conflict resolution dictionary, achieving an accuracy of 90.1%. there are two reasons why the accu- racy cannot reach 100%. 1) syntax tree error. when the sentence is too complicated, the syntax tree will fail to be constructed. therefore, the sentence structure information cannot be considered. in the validation dataset, 3 complicated sentences fail to be constructed, and the other 96 sentences are correctly constructed. therefore, 30% of alignment errors are caused by this type. 2) conflict resolution error. when the semantic alignment results are far from the ground truth, they cannot be corrected by the proposed conflict resolution method because the defined correction dictionary does not consider such situations. for example, when the bearing wall is wrongly predicted as roofsheathing in the process of semantic alignment, then the conflict resolution dictionary can not identify the error. 70% of alignment errors are caused by this type. because the structures of syntax trees are considered in the proposed semantic similarity and conflict resolution method, the time consumed by syntax tree construction is added to the time of the proposed method. although the computational complexity of the proposed method is higher than that of other algorithms, the running time on the validation datasets including 27 concepts and 99 sentences is still acceptable. the average time consumed per sentence does not exceed 1 s. table 6 shows the interpretation performance at the sentence level. our method achieves a 60.6% accuracy for semantically aligning the elements in whole sentences, which is higher than the results of other methods. sentence-level accuracy is more suitable to indicate the per- formance of a semantic alignment method because this stricter criterion also considers the applicability of a method, such as supporting the downstream tasks like code generation and rule execution [20]. in the entire arc process, each result of rule interpretation is executed for rule checking; therefore, the total correctness is related to the sentence-level accuracy of rule interpretation. the result of high sentence-level align- ing accuracy also demonstrates the high interpretation performance of our method. 4.3. text classification result to measure the result, the model predictions are compared with the gold standard, and the precision (p), recall (r), and f1-score (f1) are calculated for each semantic label as follows: p = ncorrect/nlabeled r = ncorrect/ntrue f1 = 2pr/(p + r) (2) (3) (4) where n{correct,labeled,true} denotes the number of {model correctly labeled, model labeled, true} elements for a label. finally, the weighted (i.e., micro) average f1-score is calculated to represent the overall perfor- mance (ni denotes the number of elements of the i-th semantic label) as follows: weighted f1 = (  )/  nif1,i i ni i (5) table 7 shows that the adopted classification method based on keyword matching and semantic ranking obtains a promising results with 83.4% overall f1-score on the validation dataset. as a proof of concept in an early stage, the adopted sentence classification method shows promising results because it can classify different categories for long and complex sentences with relatively high accuracy, which re- duces the human effort and supports the information transformation stage. however, it was found that the f1-score of some categories, such as class 2.1 and class 4, is low, which is due to the imperfect classifi- cation priority for semantic ranking or the incomplete keywords for rule categories. in the future, we will develop a larger corpus and train deep learning models that can better understand the meaning of the text to improve the effect of automated text classification. 4.4. performance of automated rule interpretation table 8 shows the rule categories that can be automatically inter- preted by our methods and previous methods. the sparql language provides predefined counting functions which is more suitable and concise for rules with implicit attributes that need additional reasoning than the widely used first-order logic description. therefore, our method can interpret the rules of classes 2.1 & 2.2, which were difficult in previous studies. to prove the effectiveness of the proposed method for automated rule interpretation, the time consumed by the proposed method is compared with the time consumed by the experts manual rule inter- pretation method. two experts participated in the experiment are both major in civil engineering and computer science, and are skilled in writing sparql. it should be noted that the keyword mapping method or handcrafted mapping tables are used in previous works, resulting in low sentence-level alignment accuracy and difficulty in generating sparql codes, as illustrated in table 6. therefore, the performance of our method is only compared with the manual results. in this experiment, 4 direct attribute-related requirements (class 1) with explicitly specified data and 8 indirect attribute-related re- quirements (classes 2.1 & 2.2) with implicitly specified data are selected. the time consumed to interpret rules from natural language into sparql, which can be executed by the reasoning engine correctly, is recorded. it should be noted that the automated interpretation method cannot guarantee that the interpretation result is 100% correct, so manual correction is required. therefore, the time consumed by the manual correction is also recorded as a part of the automated inter- pretation time. the results in table 9 show that the time consumed by automated rule interpretation is 20.7% of that of the manual interpre- tation for direct attribute-related requirements and 17.2% for indirect attribute-related requirements, even if the manual correction time is considered. this means that the proposed rule interpretation method greatly reduces the time and cost. table 6 performance of different alignment methods at the sentence level. table 7 performance of text classification method. method sentence number correctly interpreted sentences accuracy kw-weighted w2v-avg w2v-avg + conflict resolution 99 99 99 14 20 60 14.1% 20.2% 60.6% tag class 1 class 2.1 class 2.2 class 3 class 4 total number precision 43 2 36 10 10 101 93.5% 12.5% 96.4% 100% 100% 94.2% recall 100% 100% 75% 100% 10.0% 82.2% f1-score 96.6% 22.2% 84.4% 100% 18.2% 83.4% automationinconstruction142(2022)10452411 z. zheng et al. table 8 rule categories that can be interpreted. rule category class 1 class 2.1 & 2.2 previous studies our methods     table 9 time consumed by different rule interpretation methods. method rule class parsing (s) semantic labeling & postprocessing (s) manual revised (s) total time (s) expert algorithm class 1 class 2.1 2.2 class 1 class 2.1 2.2 99 146 0.43 0.56 1288 2344 65.39 128.64 / / 1387 2490 190.75 286.57 298.69 427.89 note: manual correction refers to the time required to modify the automatically generated sparql code so that it can be executed correctly. not all generated sparql codes need to be corrected manually. 5. application to demonstrate the real application of our method, this section im- plements rule checking of an actual plant building. fig. 2 shows the workflow of our automated rule checking system. after the model is established, according to the model preparation method proposed in appendix a, the ifc file exported from the revit bim model is converted into turtle format. ifc objects related to fire protection that design compliance checking are converted into 507 instances of the fpbo. then, semantic enrichment is conducted using the swrl rules defined in appendix a and the pellet reasoner. the original file has 3817 axioms, while the inferred file has 10, 824 axioms, which means that some im- plicit information is inferred. the logical consistency and data consis- tency of the axioms are verified by reasons and experts, respectively. for example, the implicit information of the instance ifcbuilding0 has been reasoned out, as shown in the content with a yellow background in fig. 7. after that, three example regulation rules are selected, including one direct attribute-related requirement (i.e., rule 1) and two indirect attribute-related requirements (i.e., rules 2 & 3). utilizing the auto- mated rule interpretation method in section 3.2, the above rules are interpreted into sparql codes, which can be used for the reasoning engine, as shown in fig. 8. finally, these codes are executed to check the model using graphdb. fig. 8 also shows a rule checking application in a bim model using the three example rules. according to rule 1, columns with a fire resistance limit of 2.0h, which is less than the requirement of 3h, were selected. a total of 13 column instances are screened from 302 column instances. the fire protection zone with 2 safety exits that meet the requirement of rule 2 is selected out. because the plant has 2 fire protection zones, the other one fails to pass the second check. for rule 3, the building is a two-story plant with a fire hazard category of class c and a fire resistance grade of class three. it meets the requirement of the code. the model checker provides the global id of the selected elements, and the users can locate the elements according to the global id, as shown in fig. 8. thus, this rule checking identifies 13 column instances and 1 fire protection zone instance that failed to meet the requirements. the results are the same as the manual checking results. the automated rule checking successfully detects the issues and can greatly improve the efficiency of the design. 6. discussion this work proposes a knowledge-informed automated rule checking framework consisting of ontology-based knowledge modeling, model preparation with semantic enrichment, enhanced rule interpretation, and checking execution. the ontology-based knowledge modeling part integrates the domain-specific concepts, relations, descriptions related to regulatory documents, and domain-specific rules for model enrich- ment and rule interpretation. the arc processes are enhanced with the support of domain knowledge. a series of open-source toolkits are uti- lized to establish the framework. finally, a demonstration of the rule fig. 7. application of the semantic enrichment. automationinconstruction142(2022)10452412 z. zheng et al. fig. 8. application example: use of the proposed arc system for supporting fire protection design compliance checking. checking application is conducted in an actual plant building as a proof of concept. together with the knowledge-informed automated rule checking framework, methods for semantic alignment and rule transformation are also introduced to create an end-to-end pipline that interprets regulation texts into a computer-processable format. compared to the state-of-the- art methods, the scientific contributions of this study are the following: 1. this work proposes an unsupervised-learning-based semantic align- ment method to automatically align the concepts and relations be- tween regulations and bims. in addition, knowledge-informed conflict resolution rules are utilized to improve the accuracy of rule interpretation by detecting and resolving potential conflicts of rules. compared with the widely used keyword mapping method or handcrafted mapping tables, the proposed method requires fewer human efforts in constructing ontologies and achieves the highest accuracy in the validation datasets, improving flexibility and generality. 2. the proposed code generation method supports a wider range of rules, including some complex rules with implicit information to be inferred. the progress is achieved for two reasons. on one hand, text classification considering the computability of the text is integrated into the proposed method. different categories of rules are subsequently processed using different sparql functions, improving the accuracy and the applicability. on the other hand, the proposed code generation method utilizes sparql rather than widely used plain description clauses, which is suitable for a wider range of rule interpretation and rule checking. the proposed method is applicable for creating computable rules from various textual regulatory documents. for example, in proactive design, a designer can use the proposed method to create computable rules from specific or customized textual regulatory documents to check the models [52]. the proposed automated rule interpretation method can cover most cases. but there exist really complicated requirements in the building codes where human efforts cannot be avoided. therefore, we provide a semiautomatic human-computer interaction function. users can modify the structure of syntax trees or the results of the se- mantic alignment to ensure 100% accuracy of the interpretation result. note that the tools used in the proposed framework are all open source and freely available. the prototype tools of the proposed framework and datasets developed in this work can also be obtained from open source, which will also facilitate the development of the arc. four main limitations of this research are identified and will be studied in the future by the authors. first, the proposed method is only tested in compulsory regulation automationinconstruction142(2022)10452413 z. zheng et al. fig. 8. (continued). automationinconstruction142(2022)10452414 z. zheng et al. texts from gb 500162014. the fpbo cannot be directly applied to other fields, such as earthquake resistance, energy, and sustainability. however, the rule sets developed in this study are reusable and expandable. future research can be done to enrich the ontology and rule sets to accommodate the regulatory requirements of different fields. second, the performance of the end-to-end automated rule inter- pretation method needs to be further improved. future researchers can develop a larger dataset and then replace the adopted methods with state-of-art deep learning models to improve the performance. for example, the adopted dictionary-based text classification method and unsupervised learning-based semantic alignment methods can be replaced by rnn, cnn, or attention-based methods, which can achieve a comprehensive understanding of texts, to improve the performance. third, the scope of rule categories covered by automated rule interpretation needs to be further expanded. although the direct attribute-related requirements and part of the indirect attribute-related requirements can be automatically interpreted by the proposed end-to- end pipeline, the existential requirements and spatial geometry-related requirements are not yet supported. besides, some complex rules that require additional information such as reference to rules from other sections, figures, and tables are not yet considered. in the future, the following extensions can be pursued to further improve this research. sparql functions for querying spatial geometry-related building data in rdf format should be extended. approaches for transforming spatial geometry-related building data into rdf format should be further researched. the automated rule interpreting method that considers rules from other sections, figures, and tables, should be further investigated. fourth, in this work, for research purposes, the attributes of the objects in an ifc file are all stored in the proper place rather than in the name or the description of the objects. while, in the real engineering applications, some of the information that needs to be queried may be stored in other places which may increase the difficulty of parsing ifc files. future works should pay more attention to accommodating more situations in practice. 7. conclusion and improve the generalization of concept alignment, an unsupervised learning-based semantic alignment method and knowledge-informed conflict resolution are proposed and adopted. to identify the proper sparql functions for complex rules, a domain-specific text classifica- tion method, which can identify the proper code generation method for texts, is proposed and used. then, the regulatory texts are automatically interpreted into sparql, which is suitable for a wider application range for checking rules where implicit information needs to be inferred. the proposed algorithms are implemented in a prototype system. to demonstrate the system, a plant building is automatically checked using some rules selected from gb 500162014. the experimental results indicate a number of contributions. first, the proposed semantic align- ment method and conflict resolution method achieve an accuracy of 90.1% and exceed the commonly used dictionary-based matching method by 34.3% accuracy. this means that this method can not only save manual effort in mapping tables or ontology construction but can also improve the accuracy. second, the proposed rule interpretation method can support a wider range of rules. third, the efficiency of the proposed rule interpretation method is improved by more than 5 times compared with manual interpretation by experts. in this study, the tools utilized are all available in open source and free to access, and the prototype of the automated rule interpretation and developed datasets are all available in open source. these contri- butions can considerably promote the research and application of arc. declaration of competing interest the authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. data availability data will be made available on request. acknowledgment in this research, we propose a knowledge-informed arc framework consisting of four parts: ontology-based knowledge modeling, model preparation with semantic enrichment, enhanced rule interpretation, and checking execution. based on the framework, an ontology is first established to represent domain knowledge, including concepts, syno- nyms, relationships, constraints, etc. to eliminate hard-coded patterns the authors are grateful for the financial support received from the national natural science foundation of china (no. 51908323, no. 72091512), the national key research and development program (no. 2019yfe0112800), and the tencent foundation through the xplorer prize. appendix a. model preparation ifc is a commonly used collaboration format in bim-based projects, and many bim software programs support ifc format. thus, using ifc files for data exchange can improve the scalability of arc systems. however, the express schema is adopted in ifc, which cannot be directly parsed by the reasoning engine. to date, several works have been proposed to convert ifc into ifcowl, but the above methods convert all instances and attributes in ifc to ifcowl, resulting in information redundancy. in addition, the concepts and relations in the fpbo are different from those in the ifcowl, so the existing converters cannot be used directly. therefore, a new rdf converter is customized and developed in this study to convert ifc data into the rdf format. fig. 1 illustrates the workflow of the model preparation method consisting of two main steps: model conversion and model enrichment. the model conversion aims to convert the ifc data into rdf format and consists of three sub steps: concept mapping, ifc parsing, and turtle file generation. 1. concept mapping. the concepts of ifc are aligned with those of fpbo via the mapping table established as shown in table a.1. the concepts of ifc objects are mapped to the classes in the fpbo; for example, ifcbuildingstory corresponds to buildingstory. the concepts of ifc attributes are mapped to the data properties in the fpbo; for example, fire_resistance_rating corresponds to hasfireresistancelimits_hour. the object properties among instances in fpbo are determined by three relationships in the ifc file, including decomposition, contains, and boundedby. first, the domain objects and range objects of the above three relationships can be obtained by parsing ifc, and then the fpbo classes of the objects can be determined. the object property between the two objects can be uniquely determined by a hashmap with two keys, where one key is the class of the domain object and the other key is that of the range object. 2. ifc parsing. different tools are available for developing in ifc format. the ifcopenshell (python), ifcplusplus (c++), and xbim toolkits (.net) are the most famous. ifcopenshell is based on opencascade technology and features other tools, such as blender importers. this paper utilizes automationinconstruction142(2022)10452415 z. zheng et al. ifcopenshell to parse ifc files and store the necessary objects and attributes in memory. the in-memory objects and attributes are then mapped to the fpbo concepts according to the aforementioned ontology mapping result. 3. turtle file generation. terse rdf triple language is a common format for ontology data exchange. then, the mapped data stored in memory are outputted according to the turtle syntax into a turtle file. in this work, the size of the converted ifcowl file is nearly 200 times of the .ttl file converted using fpbo and the corresponding converter. the ifcowl file is too large, so the opening and operations (e.g., ontology alignment and model enrichment) via protege are too slow, which is not suitable for the research purpose. model enrichment aims to infer implicit information and supply missing information in the turtle model. model enrichment was performed based on the pellet inference machine and the swrl rules, which are defined as follows: category 1: transitivity of the contain relationship among spatial elements. for example, space a contains space b, and space b contains space c. therefore, space a contains space c. swrl1: buildingregion(?x) ^ buildingstorey(?y) ^ buildingspace(?z) ^ hasbuildingspatialelement(?x,?y) ^ has- buildingspatialelement(?y,?z) - > hasbuildingspatialelement(?x,?z). category 2: transitivity of the contain relationship between spatial elements and component elements. for example, space a contains space b, and space b contains element c. therefore, space a contains element c. swrl2: buildingregion(?x) ^ buildingspace(?y) ^ hasbuildingspatialelement(?x,?y) ^ buildingcomponentelement(? z) ^ hasbuildingelement(?y,?z) - > hasbuildingelement(?x,?z). the above swrl can support the derivation of implicit information by a reasoning engine. swrl1 can derive the implicit information on which building spaces are contained in a building. swrl2 can derive the implicit information on which building components are contained in a building. table a.1 part of the ontology mapping dictionary. ifc schema ifcbuildingstorey ifcbuilding ifcspace ifccolumn ifcbeam ifcslab ifcwallstandardcase ifcwall ifcwindow ifcdoor ifcstair globalid fire_resistance_rating (user defined attribute) fpbo concepts buildingstorey buildingregion buildingspace column beam floor wall wall window doors stairs hasglobalid hasfireresistancelimits_hour references [1] n.o. nawari, building information modeling: automated code checking and compliance processes, crc press, 2018, https://doi.org/10.1201/ 9781351200998. [2] x. xu, h. cai, ontology and rule-based natural language processing approach for interpreting textual regulations on underground utility infrastructure, adv. eng. inform. 48 (2021), 101288, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2021.101288. [3] c. eastman, j.m. lee, y.s. jeong, j.k. lee, automatic rule-based checking of building designs, autom. constr. 18 (8) (2009) 10111033, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.autcon.2009.07.002. [4] t.h. beach, j.l. hippolyte, y. rezgui, towards the adoption of automated regulatory compliance checking in the built environment, autom. constr. 118 (2020), 103285, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103285. [5] a.s. ismail, k.n. ali, n.a. iahad, a review on bim-based automated code compliance checking system, in: 2017 international conference on research and innovation in information systems (icriis), 2017, pp. 16, https://doi.org/ 10.1109/icriis.2017.8002486. [6] s. fuchs, natural language processing for building code interpretation: systematic literature review report, in: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/stefan-fuch s-8/publication/351354243_natural_language_processing_for_building_code_int erpretation_systematic_literature_review_report/links/6093496e299bf 1ad8d7d8a0f/natural-language-processing-for-building-code-interpretation-syst ematic-literature-review-report.pdf, 2021. [7] j. dimyadi, p. pauwels, r. amor, modelling and accessing regulatory knowledge for computer-assisted compliance audit, j. inform. technol. constr. 21 (2016) 317336. https://biblio.ugent.be/publication/8041842. [8] n.o. nawari, a generalized adaptive framework (gaf) for automating code compliance checking, buildings 9 (4) (2019) 86, https://doi.org/10.3390/ buildings9040086. [9] e. hjelseth, n. nisbet, capturing normative constraints by use of the semantic mark-up rase methodology, in: proceedings of cib w78-w102 conference, 2011, pp. 110. https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net/54368036/capturing_nor mative_constraints_by_use_of_the_semantic-with-cover-page-v2.pdf?expir es=1658212065&signature=uqf8uduxqr15peboimuarel0qivaq cv21ckkdzveqke6spainnr1uv67i0twnq4uwiswvdi3mrndkoywapxg yk054qhlwrrqex7so0hph2obse67u0qy146xo9y7h-bmi66t~riq 4srp0-lca5rgptx4yi5uylil-wsr1hh8vlfc-gdoccfsuz8scd0k8ejdyhjhax8r box2bx5ixf6fquwcezga-cuey7gvucvhvstsh60p2tl2ji96i5u7aloejh6owq g9uzcw02dghknvqcmmt~1n4ii7dij3q~1qusqcbyx6cnxk3ju7kzbifww eodnoqm4or5lixdedsgmboa__&key-pair-id=apkajlohf5ggslrbv4za. [10] j. zhang, n.m. el-gohary, automated information transformation for automated regulatory compliance checking in construction, j. comput. civ. eng. 29 (4) (2015) b4015001, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000427. [11] p. zhou, n. el-gohary, ontology-based automated information extraction from building energy conservation codes, autom. constr. 74 (2017) 103117, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.09.004. [12] j. zhang, n.m. el-gohary, semantic nlp-based information extraction from construction regulatory documents for automated compliance checking, j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (2) (2016) 04015014, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce) cp.1943-5487.0000346. [13] p. zhou, n. el-gohary, semantic information alignment of bims to computer- interpretable regulations using ontologies and deep learning, adv. eng. inform. 48 (2021), 101239, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2020.101239. [14] c. zhang, j. beetz, b. de vries, bimsparql: domain-specific functional sparql extensions for querying rdf building data, semant. web 9 (6) (2018) 829855, https://doi.org/10.3233/sw-180297. [15] t.h. beach, y. rezgui, h. li, t. kasim, a rule-based semantic approach for automated regulatory compliance in the construction sector, expert syst. appl. 42 (12) (2015) 52195231, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2015.02.029. [16] s.j. fenves, tabular decision logic for structural design, j. struct. div. 92 (6) (1966) 473490, https://doi.org/10.1061/jsdeag.0001567. [17] p.m. nadkarni, l. ohno-machado, w.w. chapman, natural language processing: an introduction, j. am. med. inform. assoc. 18 (5) (2011) 544551, https://doi. org/10.1136/amiajnl-2011-000464. [18] x. xu, h. cai, semantic approach to compliance checking of underground utilities, autom. constr. 109 (2020), 103006, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. autcon.2019.103006. automationinconstruction142(2022)10452416 z. zheng et al. [19] d. kuske, n. schweikardt, first-order logic with counting, in: 2017 32nd annual acm/ieee symposium on logic in computer science (lics), ieee, 2017, june, pp. 112, https://doi.org/10.1109/lics.2017.8005133. [20] y.c. zhou, z. zheng, j.r. lin, x.z. lu, integrating nlp and context-free grammar for complex rule interpretation towards automated compliance checking, comput. ind. 142 (2022), 103746, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2022.103746. [21] w. shen, j. wang, j. han, entity linking with a knowledge base: issues, techniques, and solutions, ieee trans. knowl. data eng. 27 (2) (2014) 443460, https://doi. org/10.1109/tkde.2014.2327028.  ozgr, linking entities through an ontology using word [22] i. karadeniz, a. embeddings and syntactic re-ranking, bmc bioinformatics 20 (1) (2019) 112, https://doi.org/10.1186/s12859-019-2678-8. [23] a.a. morgan, z. lu, x. wang, a.m. cohen, j. fluck, p. ruch, a. divoli, k. fundel, p. leaman, j. hakenberg, c. sun, h. liu, r. torres, m. krauthammer, w. lau, h. liu, c. hsu, m. schuemie, k. cohen, l. hirschman, overview of biocreative ii gene normalization, genome biol. 9 (2) (2008) 119, https://doi.org/10.1186/gb- 2008-9-s2-s3. [24] o. ghiasvand, r.j. kate, uwm: disorder mention extraction from clinical text using crfs and normalization using learned edit distance patterns, in: proceedings of the 8th international workshop on semantic evaluation, 2014, pp. 828832. htt p://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.722.4597&rep=rep1 &type=pdf. [25] s. mohan, r. angell, n. monath, a. mccallum, low resource recognition and linking of biomedical concepts from a large ontology, in: proceedings of the 12th acm conference on bioinformatics, computational biology, and health informatics, 2021, pp. 110, https://doi.org/10.1145/3459930.3469524. august. [26] ifcwiki, open source projects supporting ifc. http://www.ifcwiki.org/index.php /open_source, 2021 (accessed: june 16, 2021). [27] ontotext graphdb, graphdb. https://www.ontotext.com/products/graphdb/, 2021 (accessed: june 24, 2021). [28] d.t.j. osullivan, m.m. keane, d. kelliher, r.j. hitchcock, improving building operation by tracking performance metrics throughout the building lifecycle (blc), energy build. 36 (11) (2004) 10751090, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. enbuild.2004.03.003. [35] r. zhang, n. el-gohary, a machine learning approach for compliance checking- specific semantic role labeling of building code sentences, in: advances in informatics and computing in civil and construction engineering, springer, cham, 2019, pp. 561568, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-00220-6_67. [36] j. devlin, m.w. chang, k. lee, k. toutanova, bert: pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding, arxiv preprint, arxiv:181 0.04805. [37] n. chomsky, three models for the description of language, ire trans. inform. theory 2 (3) (1956), https://doi.org/10.1109/tit.1956.1056813. [38] t. parr, the definitive antlr 4 reference, pragmatic bookshelf, 2013 (isbn: 9781680505016). [39] j. lilleberg, y. zhu, y. zhang, support vector machines and word2vec for text classification with semantic features, in: 2015 ieee 14th international conference on cognitive informatics & cognitive computing, 2015, pp. 136140, https://doi. org/10.1109/icci-cc.2015.7259377. [40] t. mikolov, w.t. yih, g. zweig, linguistic regularities in continuous space word representations, in: proceedings of the 2013 conference of the north american chapter of the association for computational linguistics: human language technologies, 2013, pp. 746751. https://aclanthology.org/n13-1090.pdf. [41] r. rehurek, p. sojka, software framework for topic modelling with large corpora, in: proceedings of the lrec 2010 workshop on new challenges for nlp frameworks, 2010. http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1 .1.695.4595, pp. 45-50. [42] f. godin, b. vandersmissen, w. de neve, r. van de walle, multimedia lab @ acl w-nut ner shared task: named entity recognition for twitter microposts using distributed word representations, in: proceedings of the workshop on noisy user- generated text, 2015, pp. 146153. july, https://aclanthology.org/w15-4322.pdf. [43] j. savigny, a. purwarianti, emotion classification on youtube comments using word embedding, in: 2017 international conference on advanced informatics, concepts, theory, and applications (icaicta), ieee, 2017, pp. 15, https://doi. org/10.1109/icaicta.2017.8090986. august. [44] wikimedia, chinese corpus. https://dumps.wikimedia.org/zhwiki/latest/zhwiki- latest-pages-articles.xml.bz2, 2021 (accessed: june 22, 2021). [45] soujianzhu, chinese rules. https://www.soujianzhu.cn/default.aspx, 2021 [29] m. rasmussen, p. pauwels, m. lefranois, g.f. schneider, c. hviid, j. karlshj, ((accessed: june 22, 2021). (in chinese)). recent changes in the building topology ontology, in: ldac2017 - 5th linked data in architecture and construction workshop, 2017. https://hal-emse.ccsd.cnrs. fr/emse-01638305. [30] the ministry of public security of the peoples republic of china, code for fire protection design of buildings (gb 500162014) (in chinese), https://www. soujianzhu.cn/normandrules/normcontent.aspx?id=323, 2014. (accessed 19 july 2022). [31] j. qiu, l. qi, j. wang, g. zhang, a hybrid-based method for chinese domain lightweight ontology construction, int. j. mach. learn. cybern. 9 (9) (2018) 15191531, https://doi.org/10.1007/s13042-017-0661-0. [32] m.a. musen, the protege project: a look back and a look forward, ai matters 1 (4) (2015) 412, https://doi.org/10.1145/2757001.2757003. [33] t. bloch, r. sacks, clustering information types for semantic enrichment of building information models to support automated code compliance checking, j. comput. civ. eng. 34 (6) (2020) 04020040, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce) cp.1943-5487.0000922. [34] d. jurasky, j.h. martin, speech and language processing: an introduction to natural language processing, comput. linguist. speech recogn. 2020 (2020). https ://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/ed3book.pdf. [46] z. zheng, x.z. lu, k.y. chen, y.c. zhou, j.r. lin, pretrained domain-specific language model for natural language processing tasks in the aec domain, comput. ind. 142 (2022), 103733, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2022.103733. [47] e. prudhommeaux, a. seaborne, sparql query language for rdf. w3c recommendation. http://www.w3.org/tr/rdf-sparql-query/, 2008. (accessed 24 june 2021). [48] s. harris, a. seaborne, sparql 1.1 query language. w3c recommendation. https://www.w3.org/tr/sparql11-query/, 2013. (accessed 24 june 2021). [49] w. solihin, c. eastman, classification of rules for automated bim rule checking development, autom. constr. 53 (2015) 6982, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. autcon.2015.03.003. [50] d.m. salama, n.m. el-gohary, semantic text classification for supporting automated compliance checking in construction, j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (1) (2016) 04014106, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000301. [51] c.h. caldas, l. soibelman, j. han, automated classification of construction project documents, j. comput. civ. eng. 16 (4) (2002) 234243, https://doi.org/10.1061/ (asce)0887-3801(2002)16:4(234). [52] s. sobhkhiz, y.c. zhou, j.r. lin, t.e. el-diraby, framing and evaluating the best practices of ifc-based automated rule checking: a case study, buildings 11 (10) (2021), 456, https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings11100456. automationinconstruction142(2022)10452417

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page1_img1.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page1_img2.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page1_img3.png
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page4_img1.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page5_img1.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page6_img1.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page12_img1.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page13_img1.jpeg
Knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page14_img1.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page1_img1.jpeg --- automation in construction --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page1_img2.jpeg --- pe ihe, ez elsevier --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page4_img1.jpeg --- model preparation fc 1 model 1 model conversion enrichment rdf-based source ---------- -------- knowledge graph iec file tb concepts relations rules pp . 7 checking execution ontology-based knowledge modeling oy ---------, ---------, ----------, --------, c nn reasoning engine toe i a i lerintinne l reine ie lconcepts j relations deseriptions j rules nn checking results concepts relations descriptions rules -o----------------- rule interpretation monn ts bo ae vt eee - preprocess semantic parsing semantic som lic owe c fa i att . . ars . 2 fel ot atittoat ing hl labeling l alignment casolvtien j semerrthon 1 regulation tt tse ee sparql queries text --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page5_img1.jpeg --- hasheight m 7% float bice orcsemm haslength m hasbuildingspatialelement hassubclass co hasbuildingelement hasfireresistancelimitshour abcd. 5 i buildingspatialelement buildingcomponentelement ff fot ee buildingsite seeecc coon econ eeeeeeeees wr class aenxsestring ee a ee ic ee, ee fl ea ee saris cotarnnr alias pitien class dxsdstring , 3 is ye clase evenssstring buildingregion - dh. damumeal definition colummrisavertical. the range of hassubclass hassubclass structucal member that... hasfirehazardcategory buildingstorey ee defined in protg aa isfirewallboolea equivalent eee domain object properties dl descriptions domain data properties --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page6_img1.jpeg --- sentence the fire hazard categorv of the factory building is class c. the area of each fire compartment of splitting the building should not exceed 2000m. semantic the fire hazard calegor prop of the jel is emp class c arprop. the . area prop of each tire compartment prop of the building should net exceed emp 2000m2 labeling rprop. factory buildi ac ola ing the fire hazard categor isah class c parsing fire compartment th should not d 2000m2 factory building peenienieeieetet eeee ontology concepts the fire hazard category l class c 7 - plant semantic a ra em hasfirehazardcategorv alignment ite compartment 4 ff f isfireprotectionsubdivision the area should not exceed 2000m2 asar ly e area 20m hasaream2 the dashed line means there are conflicts in the alignment results building equivalent class , a conflict resolution hasbuildingtype plant . prop cmp arprop . hasfirehazardcategor conflict prop cmp arprop . . domain-range resolution buildingregion . --- ot va conflict resolution lisfireprotectionsubdivisionequal to true prop cmp arprop should not exceed 2000m2 prop cmp rprop sparql prefix rdfs httpwww.w3.org200001rdf-schema select distinct where code class buildingregion1 rdftype owlnamedindividual , eat, . myclassbuildingregion . gener ation class buildingregion1 hasglobalid classbuildingregion1id . bind datapropertyhasfirehazardcategory 4 3xsdint as passhasfirehazardcategory . filter passhasfirehazardcategory truexsdboolean . --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page12_img1.jpeg --- individuals ifcbuildingd itis. sem anices org 15424 ontologes 2020 10 busdingdesgefvecanes ontolng ee bisiding datatypes annotations usage re lse annotations ifcbuildingo bosee data properties object propeities shrntatins classes individuals ds 1l4 o description ifcbuildingo msh property assertions lfcbuildingo p ores ifcbeam379 ifcbeam380 tapes byt eiepeit, auecerions r ifcbeam381 buildingregion mb hasbuilding spatialelement ifcbeam382 ifcbuildingstorey1 ifcbeam383 . ae m hasbuilding spatialelement 3 ifcbeam384 individuals by type inferred ifcbuildingo ose88 itebuilding storey3 3 ifcbeam385 beam 50 mb hasbuildingelement ifccolumn148 ifcbeam386 v buildingregion 1 aa are hasbuildingelement ifccolumn269 ifcbeam387 ttcbuitdingo 9 ifcbeam3s8 building space 8 mb hasbuildingelement ifecolumn268 itcbeam389 building storey 5 mb hasbuildingelement ifccolumn147 e id column 312 ifebeam390 doors 14 mi hasbuildingelement ifecolumn149 ifcbeam391 14 ifcbeam302 se oy mbhasbuildingelement ifccolumn144 tairs hcbuildingo wall 24 mb hasbuildingelement ifccolumn265 ifcbuilding storey ld window 83 mb hasbuildingelement lfecolumn143 itcbuitding storey mm hasbuildingelement ifecolumn264 ifcbuilding storey - lfcbuilding storey mbhasbuildingelement ifccolumn146 eo ifcbuilding store mb hasbuildingelement lfccolumn267 ltecommnian mb hasbuildingelement ifecolumn266 --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page13_img1.jpeg --- the fire resistance limit of the columns ts not less than 3h. prefin adie http www ws ore 20d of pdf-schema prefin df http www w3 og 1990 02 22-rdt-syntax-ns prefix owl http wai w3 ong 200207 owl prefin xxl http wow wi org 200, nmlschemaz prefin mnvelass http www semantieweb org 16o42-f ontologies 2020 10 untitled-ontology-s prefix bitty www xemantioweb org 10424 ontologies 2020 10 building desgnpuecodest nitolegy select distinct classcolumn1 classcolumn1id where %elasscolumn rd fitype ny clisscolumn %classcolumn hasgloballd classcolumnlid . classcolumn hasfireresistancelimitshour datapropertyhasfireresistancelimitshour2 bind datapropertyhasfireresistancelimitshow2 3 xvdfloat as passhasfireresistancelimits . filter passhasfireresistancelimits falxe xsdboolean . classcolumn1 classcolumn1id lfccolurin324 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkilc afccclurin 322 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkila lfecolurn323 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkilg lfecolurmn324 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkkile fecolumn325 2tivwvunsimepwynrkkilk fe olurin326 2tivwvunsimepwynarkili ifecolurin37 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkili lfecelursin328 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkkilg - fecolumn33c 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkkilm lfcsolurn33% 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkilk lfecolurin332 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rklq ifecoluren 333 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkkilo lfecolurn334 2tivwvunsimepwyn3rkilu a rule --- text from knowledge informed semantic alignment and rule interpretation for automated compliance checking_page14_img1.jpeg --- the number of safety exits in the plant is not less than 2 for each fire protection zone. prefin relts http www w3 og 200 6 rdf schemas prefix cdf http www w3 org l000 02 22-cdf-swatax-ne prefix owl http www w3 ore 2002 07 owl prefix xsd http www w3 org ml nmlschema prefin ioveliss http www xemantieweb org l424 ontologies 220 lo untitled-ontology-s prefix shitty www semanticeweb org lo424 ontologies 2020 10 buildings designfu e codes tology select classbuildingspace1 classbuildingspace1id count distinct classdoors2 as classdoors2num where classbuildings pace rdiitvwpe myclass buildings pace elassbuildings pace hasgloballd classbuildingspaceid . classdoors2 1dftwpe myclass doors 2classdoors hasgloballd classdoors id. classbuildings pace hasbuildingelement classdoors2 2elassbuildings pace isfireprotectionsubdivisionboolean datapropertyisfireprotectionsubdivisionboolean3 . bind datapropertv1sfireprotectionsubdivisionboolean3 tue xxiboolean as passisfireprotections ubdivision . filter passisfireprotections ubdivision te xxdboolean classdoors2 issecuritvexitsboolean datapropertyissecurityexitsboolean4 bind datapropertyissecurityexitsboolean4tre xsdboolean as passissecurityenits . filter passissecuritvexits true xxdboolean . group by iclassbuildings pace1 classbuildings pace1id having elassdoors2 mim 2 order by desc pelassdoors2 num classbuildingspace1 classbuildingspace1id classdoors2num slfespace8 iwxujted61p7zyfarwkmh gr -xsdiinteger b rule2 the fire hazard category is class c. and the fire resistance grade of the factory building is class il. the number of storeys in a factory should not exceed 2. prefix udts http www w3 og 2000 01 rd esehemas prefin rdf http wow w3 org 000 g2 2 2-rdeewintax-ts prefix ow http www w3 erg 2002 97 owl prefix xxd http www wi org 2h, nailschemas prefix mvelass http www semantieweb org 16424 ontologies 20200 1 untitled-ontology-n prefix hitip www semantieweb org 16424 ontologies 2020 lo building destenkue odes uitoloy select classbuildingregion1 classbuildingregion1 id count distinct classbuildingstorey2 as classbuildingstorey num where class buildngregion idftype myclussbuildingregion classbuildingregion1 hasgloballd classbuildingregion1 id. 2lassbuildingstorey rlfitype nivehiss buildings torey 2 classbuildingstorey2 shasgloballd classbuildingstorey2id %classbuildingregion1 hasfirehazardcategory datapropertyhasfirehazardcategory3 bind datapropertvhasfirehazardcategorv3 3 xsdsint as passhasfirehazardcategorv filter passhasfuehazardcategory true xxdboolean classbuildingregion1 hasfireresistancegrade datapropertyhasfireresistancegirade bind datapropertyhasfireresistancegrade43 xsdint as passhasfureresistancegrade filter passhasfueresistancegrade true xsdboolean . 2classbuildingregion hasbuildingspatialelement classbuildingstorey2 classbuildingregion1 -hasbuildingtype datapropertyhasbuildingtype5 . bind datapropertyhasbuildingtype plant xsdstring as passhasbuildingtype filter passhasbuildingt ype true xiboolean . group by classbuildingregion1 classbuildingregionid having classbuildingstorey2num -. 2 order by desc classbuildingstorey2num classbuildingstorey2num classbuildingregion1 classbuildingregion1id - 4 fcbuildingo 20ibtz2umlbygfonvreliuz g xsdinteger c rule3
