==== TEXT ====
bimreason - validating bim model correctness philipp zech1, peter burger1, sascha hammes2, david geisler-moroder2 und ruth breu1 1department of computer science, university of innsbruck, tyrol, austria 2unit of energy efficient building, university of innsbruck, tyrol, austria abstract inspections for compliance and building analysis are critical to the success of any construction en- deavor. at present, such assessments are pri- marily conducted manually by experts in the ar- chitecture, engineering, and construction (aec) sector resulting in a tedious, labor-intensive, and generally ineffective undertaking. yet, with the gradual adoption of building information modeling (bim), automated building analysis and compliance checking become feasible. the industry founda- tion classes (ifc), in particular, has received a lot of traction in the aec industry as a vendor-neutral data model. its well-defined semantics can be ex- ploited by reasoning engines that allow for seman- tic reasoning on building models, the core mech- anism required for automated compliance check- ing and building analysis. in this paper, a general- purpose model-checking framework for ifc build- ing models, as well as an appropriate specification layout are introduced. model-checking via seman- tic reasoning is realized using various technologies from the semantic web. to showcase and evalu- ate our implementation, a sample specification is developed and tested on two ifc building models. introduction the advent of digitization in the architecture, engi- neering and construction (aec) industry and the increased requirements for collaboration among stakeholders has led to a progressive adoption of building information modeling (bim) (boje et al. 2020, charef et al. 2019) over recent years. be- fore bim, 2d/3d drawings, floor plans, and for- mal paperwork were the most common techniques in planning and implementing building projects. bim on the other hand aims to represent a build- ing project as a shared digital representation of physical and functional characteristics of any built object [] which forms a reliable basis for de- cisions (kalinichuk 2015). the resulting bim model then comprises the 3d geometry of the building, cost information, information about en- ideally, ergy usage, and information on more specific sub- jects such as mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (mep), and heating, ventilation, and air condition- ing (hvac) systems. at its core, bim attempts to assign semantic meaning to building elements and makes this information available and interpretable by computers. by far the most prevalent standard in the bim environment is the industry foundation classes (ifc) (pauwels et al. 2017) which defines an open data exchange and file format for bim, and allows for a common, vendor-neutral way to represent building data in the aec domain. this vendor neu- trality allows for the development of vendor-neutral automation tools, e.g., for the model-checking of bim models. currently, model-checking of bim models that surpass clash and collision detec- tion is generally done manually using human judg- ment (amor & dimyadi 2021). this process is inefficient and highly error-prone (xue & zhang 2022, zhang & el-gohary 2017, lee et al. 2020). therefore, the automation of bim model-checking is highly relevant. commensurate with current issues in bim-based model-checking, this paper introduces a general- purpose model-checking framework for bim model analysis and compliance. our contribution is devel- oped as a plugin for the eclipse framework (eclipse foundation 2023). the resulting framework allows ifc-based building models to be checked against various specifications. to achieve this, a checking pipeline, together with a corresponding specifica- tion language, was developed. the reasoning part was implemented using technologies from the se- mantic web, specifically through the use of apache jena (apache foundation 2023). our contribution is outlined as design science research (dsr) (wieringa 2014) and produces a tool as an artifact. the development of our artifact follows a systematic process, starting with gath- ering requirements and ending with creating pro- totypes and conducting experiments. the artifact is implemented as a solution to the following de- sign science problem, outlined using the dsr tem- plate (wieringa 2014): 56 improve bim model quality (context) by designing a vendor-neutral tool (artifact) that satisfies reasoning on bim models (requirement) to deliver automated bim model-checking. (goal) dsr usually refers to an artifact as a prototype at technology readiness level 3 (trl3), repre- senting a conceptual solution at an early stage of technology development. using a cyber demon- strator, our proposal achieves a trl5 (cf. sec. ar- tifact implementation). the next section outlines the background of our work and state-of-the-art, fol- lowed by sec. solution proposal, which introduces our contribution. before we conclude in sec. con- clusion we evaluate our proposal in sec. results and discussion on two bim models by evaluating them against an exemplary specification as devel- oped throughout sec. solution proposal. background and related work reasoning in the context of building models can be defined as the act of deducing logical conclu- sions from an existing building model in order to get valuable information that can be utilized for subse- quent interpretation. the most common applica- tions of reasoning in the aec industry are compli- ance checking and building performance analysis. compliance checking is the procedure of verify- ing that a building model is consistent with a cer- tain law, specification, or regulation. the normative texts for compliance checking generally specify a set of rules, that produce true, false, unknown or warn as a result (eastman et al. 2009). common examples of compliance checking are the assess- ment of fire codes, accessibility, or general codes that ensure the safety of the building. building per- formance analysis on the other hand is used to evaluate how well a building operates in terms of specific criteria. this includes the analysis of en- ergy efficiency, the computation of green building scores, evaluation of indoor air quality and acous- tics (tian et al. 2021). building performance analy- sis relies on complex computations and simulations and produces a variety of different, most often nu- it is also not uncommon for com- merical results. pliance checking to enforce certain requirements on the buildings performance, such as a minimum level of energy efficiency. compliance checking and building performance analysis is complex, and to this day, it is most of- ten carried out manually, by domain experts. in some cases, computer software is used to assist this manual reasoning. still, this is known to be repetitive, error-prone, inefficient, and a contribut- ing factor to declining productivity in projects (amor & dimyadi 2021, zhang & el-gohary 2017, gade et al. 2021). therefore, automating this reasoning process is highly desired (gade & svidt 2021). with the advent of bim and ifc, the first promising im- plementations for automated compliance checking and building analysis started to appear (lee et al. 2020, sacks et al. 2019, sydora & stroulia 2019). notable stable and available implementations are the solibri model checker, designcheck, or for- nax eplancheck. although these provide solid ap- proaches to (semi-)automated compliance check- ing, they are (i) restricted in the range of specifica- tions, i.e., checks that can be executed, (ii) imple- mented as a black-box, and (iii) generally do not support custom rule definition (gade et al. 2021, gade & svidt 2021, issa & olbina 2015, lee et al. 2020). the specifications for compliance checking and building performance analysis are most often writ- ten in natural language. the translation of these normative texts to machine-interpretable checks is extremely complex (amor & dimyadi 2021). the most common reason for this is the mismatch be- tween the information required in the specification and the information provided by the building model. as an example, many fire codes define concepts such as emergency exit routes, fire scores of build- ing elements, and the flammability of certain ma- terials. therefore, mechanisms are required that help with aligning concepts from the specification to concepts in the building model (amor & dimyadi 2021). to enable reasoning on bim models, the se- mantics have to be understood by a reasoning en- gine (hitzler & van harmelen 2010). even though ifc is computer-readable, it is not directly suited for inference. to mitigate this, we employ the if- cowl (pauwels & terkaj 2016), the rdf-based ontology counterpart of the ifc. the resulting rep- resentation of the bim then can be fed as input to a reasoning engine which implement the formal infer- ence system defined by web ontology language (owl) (antoniou & harmelen 2009), and by using the concepts defined in the ifcowl ontology, addi- tional knowledge can be derived from the underly- ing bim model. however, even though reasoning on bim models solely using the owl semantics and ifcowl is a powerful way to infer new infor- mation from it, supplying the reasoning procedure with additional semantics is often required (jiang et al. 2022). for that, the semantic web provides the semantic web rule language (swrl) (hor- rocks et al. 2004). swrl can be used to imple- ment custom semantics in the form of inference rules. an inference rule consists of an antecedent and a consequent part. if in a reasoning proce- dure, the antecedent of a rule can be derived from the existing data, then the consequent is inferred and added for further inference. this process is re- peated until no more inferences can be concluded. rule-based reasoning is thus useful to implement recursive computations. in the context of reason- ing on bim models, it also helps with the alignment 57 between specification implementation and the bim model. in addition to rule-based reasoning, the semantic web also provides the semantic web protocol and rdf query language (sparql) (arenas & prez 2011) to extract information from rdf-based on- tologies by pattern matching. however, sparql also specifies special construct-queries, where the results from query execution are stored back to the model on which the query was executed. this allows for query-based reasoning on rdf data. query-based reasoning is especially useful for ex- istential quantification, aggregation, and complex mathematical computations. solution proposal our proposal requires two inputs: (i) an ifc-based bim model to check, and (ii) rule specifications against which the bim model will be evaluated. the checking engine should have the capability to check bim models against multiple specifications. the result of the checking procedure is a list of check results. the reasoning part of the checking engine is implemented using existing technologies from the semantic web. the final checking engine is then packaged and deployed as a plugin for the eclipse ide. since the conditions for the desired implemen- tations allow for different solution proposals, a re- quirements analysis was conducted at the begin- ning of the project and further reevaluated and en- hanced throughout the implementation. this was crucial to narrow down the possible solution can- didates. the requirements analysis was driven by our dsr problem (cf. sec. introduction), existing research in the field of automation in the aec in- dustry, research on the adoption of semantic web technologies in the aec industry, research on the nature and structure of normative texts, and solu- tions to practical problems and needs discovered during development. the following list outlines the most important requirements as determined during our analysis (in no particular order): r1: range of supported building models. a va- riety of building models supported by the verifica- tion technique is desired and a top priority. the checking engine uses bim models as inputs, hence at least ifc models should be supported. ifc is the most advanced bim standard and is supported by most bim applications. the suggested verifica- tion framework only accepts single-file ifc models, although the semantic web can integrate multi-file and multi-standard models. as ifc data format ver- sions (mainly ifc2x3 and ifc4) are not backward compatible, version alignment is needed. addition- ally, version alignment establishes an n:m link be- tween building models and specifications, enabling model verification across several specifications. r2: range of specifications that can be im- plemented. according to legal text research and building analysis research, compliance checking and building performance analysis are the most common forms of building analysis. these two analyses differ largely in calculation and findings. building performance analysis involves computa- tion and numerical results, while compliance verifi- cation checks specific requirements. in addition to flexible check outputs, checks should convey com- plicated computations and inferences. specifica- tions often include existential quantification, mathe- matical formula implementation, aggregations, and recursions. thus, the checking engine should sup- port complex specifications with a flexible, expres- sive specification layout. r3: simple distribution and management of specifications. specification implementation, dis- tribution, and maintenance should be straightfor- ward. a specification should be a single artifact provided to the checking engine. this streamlines the import logic and improves distribution. keeping the complete specification in one place simplifies management. besides dissemination and main- tenance, specification implementations should be transparent and verifiable by third parties. r4: extensible execution model. the entire ver- ification process should be adaptable. therefore, the checking engine implementation is simple and extendable as the bim environment may evolve. new standards and exchange formats may make using a single ifc file as input insufficient. r5: performance. time should be reasonable for checking. performance and other needs are diffi- cult to balance as checking huge models requires several sacrifices. first off, models need to be converted into ifcowl. at this, caching and reduc- ing the overall model size are not feasible as this would impede specification expressiveness and flexibility (jiang et al. 2022). inference is another performance-affecting step that is time-consuming on big models. in addition, support for sparql construct-queries is essential, as rule-based rea- soning struggles with complex mathematical for- mulas and aggregations (jiang et al. 2022) which we mitigate by these very sparql construct- queries (cf. sec. specification layout). solution overview our solution implements a pipeline architecture as outlined in fig. 1. the bim model and the specifi- cation implementation on which to check the bim model are the two inputs to the pipeline. these are then passed through a series of steps, viz. import, inference, checking, and results extraction. the fi- nal component, viz. results extractor, produces a list of check results as output. to enable semantic reasoning, the ifc building model is translated to ifcowl by the model importer. 58 figure 1: pipeline of the checking procedure. specification layout as mentioned earlier, a wide range of specifications should be supported by the checking engine. to solve this, an opinionated specification layout was developed. by design, the specification implemen- tation supplies most of the logic required for the check execution. the sole purpose of the checker is then to apply this logic to the bim model in a sen- sible sequence of steps. only a few assumptions are made on how checks are implemented, and no assumptions are made on the check results. this allows for very expressive and flexible specification implementations and simplifies the checking pro- cedure as a whole. essentially, specification im- plementations are defined to be zip archives (.zip) compliant with the following, well-defined directory layout (cf. fig. 4): myspec:fail to the tested door (?s) on the check myspec:check_ibc_2015_section_1010_b. con- ceptually, this rule describes, that every door that is less than 813mm wide fails the check defined in the ibc 2015, section 1010b. for more details, see sec. checker. [ somecheck : ( ? s r d f : t y p e myspec : door ) ( ? s myspec : haswidth ?w) lessthan ( ?w,  813  ^^ xsd : double ) > ( ? s myspec : check_ibc_2015_section_1010_b myspec : fail ) ] figure 2: an excerpt of an exemplary .jr file used for check implementation. checks/{check}.jr the checks/ directory con- tains a list of check implementations in the form of jena rules (.jr). there can be arbitrarily many rule files in this directory. these rules are used to implement the concrete checks (rules from nor- mative texts), which generate the final check re- sults. the naming of the files is open to the im- plementer of the specification, yet it is advised to name them according to the actual checks they im- plement. there can be multiple check implemen- tations per file. the checking rules themselves are definite horn clauses in implication form (gior- dano et al. 1992) and composed of an antecedent and a consequent. the antecedent is used to de- fine the objects to be tested, whereas the con- sequent defines the check result that is applied to the object. fig. 2 shows an example of such a check implementation. in this specific case, the antecedent of the rule defines a pattern that matches every element ?s of type myspec:door, where ?s has a property myspec:haswidth with a corresponding value ?w that is less than "813". the task of a rule-based reasoning engine is then to find all possible assignments of ?s and ?w that satisfy this pattern. for each solution, the con- the rule is evaluated and added to sequent of in this case, the consequent assigns the model. inference/ontologies/{graph}.ttl the ontologies/ sub-directory within the inference/ directory contains an arbitrary number of rdf graphs stored as turtle (.ttl) files. there can be ar- bitrary many of these files, and the naming of them is open to the specification implementer. also, there is no restriction to the content of the turtle files. they are imported during the inference step and appended to the building model. this could be used to import external schemata and ontologies for providing additional semantics on top of the ifcowl. for more details, see sec. inferencer. inference/rules/{rule}.jr the inference/rules/ directory contains an arbitrary number of rule files (.jr), which in turn contain the rules used for rule inference. similar to the rules in the checks/ di- rectory, the naming of them is open to the imple- menter. these rules are used to enrich the building model with additional information, including the im- plementation of the owl semantics and ifc ver- sion alignment. a concrete example of ifc ver- sion alignment is shown in fig. 3. here, two rules are used to map different ifcdoor implementations (ifc2x3 and ifc4) to a common myspec:door. for more details, see sec. inferencer. checking pipelinemodel importerspecificationimporterinferencercheckerresultsextractorbim modelspecificationresults59 [ ( ? x r d f : t y p e i f c 2 _ 3 : i f c d o o r ) > ( ? x r d f : t y p e myspec : s p e c i f i c a t i o n . z i p door ) ] [ ( ? x r d f : t y p e i f c 4 : i f c d o o r ) > ( ? x r d f : t y p e myspec : door ) ] figure 3: implementation of ifc version alignment using rule files from the inference/rules/ direc- tory. inference/queries/{query}.sparql the inference/queries/ directory contains an ar- bitrary number of sparql-queries used for query inference. the naming of the queries is open to the implementer. the content of the sparql files has to be a valid sparql construct-query. other than that, there are no restrictions on the concrete implementation of the queries. the queries in this directory are used to implement inferences that cannot be realized using rule-based inference, such as complex, mathematical computations, existential quantification, and aggregations. for more details, see sec. inferencer. extraction/extraction.sparql the extraction/ directory contains a mandatory extraction.sparql file. once check execution is completed, this query is used to extract the final check results from the model. other than being a valid sparql select-query, the exact implementation is open to the implementer of the specification. however, it is common to implement the extraction query in such a way, that each element of list contains information about the object that was tested, an additional identified for the object, the check on which the object was tested, and the final check result. the results from the extraction query form the output of the checking procedure. for more detail, see sec. results extractor. the result fig. 4 shows the layout of a possible specification implementation. for an actual specification imple- mentation, see sec. results and discussion. checks / check1 . j r check2 . j r i n f e r e n c e / o n t o l o g i e s / r d f 1 . t t l r d f 2 . t t l r u l e s / r u l e s 1 . j r r u l e s 2 . j r r u l e s 3 . j r q u e r i e s / query1 . s p a r q l query2 . s p a r q l e x t r a c t i o n / e x t r a c t i o n . s p a r q l figure 4: directory structure and corresponding files of a specification implementation. specification importer importing a specification, together with model im- port, forms the first stage in our pipeline. the- oretically, specification import and model import could be executed in parallel. however, import- ing the specification first results in better fail fast performance in case of an erroneous specification. specifically, the specification importer reads and parses the specification thereby parsing the sup- plied rules, queries, and rdf graphs to their re- spective objects in apache jena. if the supplied specification file does not conform to the layout de- fined in fig. 4, it is rejected. the final result of spec- ification import is an in-memory representation of the supplied specification as required in later steps. model importer after specification import is completed, the ifc- based bim model is imported. as no assumptions are made on the bim model, any valid ifc file is considered a valid input. the ifc-based bim model is then converted into ifcowl and forwarded to apache jena for in-memory storage. the final result of this step is a single rdf graph, containing the bim model as used in later steps of the pipeline. artifact implementation inferencer many software libraries provide support for tech- in our imple- nologies from the semantic web. mentation, apache jena was used, as it provides a general platform for many semantic web tech- nologies including reading, writing, and manipulat- ing rdf data, support for rule-based reasoning, a custom rule language similar to swrl, an im- plementation of the owl semantics through rule- based reasoning, and query-based reasoning us- ing sparql construct-queries. once specification and model are imported, se- mantic enrichment is performed on the bim model by using the inference section (inference/) from the imported specification. the idea behind the in- ference step is to enrich the bim model with ad- ditional information, that can then be used in the check execution. generally, inference is divided into three steps, each dedicated to a different type of inference, viz. additional ontology import, rule in- ference, and query inference. these steps are ex- 60 ecuted in sequence, whereby the order is crucial as the inference results of previous steps can be used in subsequent steps. in the proposed imple- mentation, execution is ordered by generality: (i) additional ontology import, (ii) rule inference, and (iii) query inference, whereby ontology import is the most general, and query inference is the most spe- cific. checker figure 5: the simple model used for testing. as are jena implemented checks rules and provided in the imported specification the antecedent of a (checks/{check}.jr). checking rule defines the pattern of objects that are subject to a specific check. the consequent is then implemented in such a way, that the inference thereof represents the result of applying the check on the object. this is achieved by defining the consequent of a checking rule as a (?object, ?check, ?result) triple. the ?object represents the object that is checked, ?check is an identifier for the concrete check that is applied to the object, and the check result is captured by ?result. using the genericrulereasoner from jena, these rules are executed on the enriched model (cf. sec. in- ferencer). the inferred statements are then considered the check results. although checks could also be implemented directly in the inference step, outsourcing check execution into a different step ensures that all is performed before the checking rules are applied. the model enrichment results extractor the result extractor extracts the final results after check execution using the sparql ex- traction query provided in the specification (extraction/extraction.sparql). the exact im- plementation of how and what results are extracted is open to the implementer of the specification. for example, for our evaluation in sec. results and discussion, each check was specifically declared to be of type spec:check. the extraction query then simply selects all the triples from the model, wherein the ?predicate in (x, ?predicate, y) is of type spec:check. it is also worth mentioning, that the final check results no longer have to be rdf triples. for example, it might be useful to append the ifc-id of tested objects to their respective check results, making it a query solution with 4 fields (the rdf identifier of the tested object, the ifc identifier of the tested object, the rdf identifier of the check, and the check result). as check result extraction is the last step in the pipeline, its results are considered to be the output of the entire checking procedure. figure 6: the complex model used for testing. results and discussion to evaluate our proposal, a sample specification was developed and tested on two different ifc building models. the models were obtained from an open repository1. the first building model shown in fig. 5 is a simple, single-story build- ing that lacks any interior walls. the ifc ver- sion of this model is ifc4. the second building model shown in fig. 6 is a large, multi-story of- fice building. the ifc version used for this build- ing model is ifc2x3. different ifc versions were chosen to enforce version alignment within the specification implementation. the used models, specifications and implementation are available for download at https://www.github.com/phizech/ in the following, we report on the modelchecker. performance of our proposal. all experiments were conducted on a windows 10 x64 machine running on an intel(r) core(tm) i7-4790 cpu@3.60ghz with 16gb ddr3 ram. it is expected, that the time for checking increases with model size. tbl. 1 shows the detailed performance evalua- tion of the checking procedure on both the small and the large building model. in summary, the checking procedure on the smaller building model took a total of 5.035 secs, whereas the checking on the larger building model took a total of 124.018 secs. in both cases, the model enrichment step takes the longest, with 3.432 secs for the smaller and 87.002 secs for the larger model. consider- ing the actual size of the models (small: 0.269mb, large: 13.625mb), the correlation between model 1http://smartlab1.elis.ugent.be:8889/ifc-repo/ 61 size and time taken for enrichment appears to be super-linear. this is also reflected in the size of the rdf graph before and after enrichment. for the small model, the size of the rdf graph approx- imately doubled from 37831 statements to 73619 statements after enrichment, whereas for the large model, the rdf graph increased by a factor of four, from 1796200 statements to 7715966 statements. the time for specification import is independent of the model used, with 0.593 secs for the smaller model, and 0.735 secs for the large model. the time required for model import is expected to be linearly proportional to the model size. however, since this step downloads the ifcowl ontology and several other transitive dependencies from the in- ternet, the import of small building models could also require several secs. in both cases, the model import was the most expensive step after enrich- ment and took 3.432 secs for the small model and 30.975 secs for the large model. check execution took 0.017 secs for the small model and 1.401 secs for the large model. the time taken for result extraction is almost negligible, with 0.010 secs for the small model and 0.034 secs for the large model. the checking process resulted in a total of 23 final check results for the small model and 637 for the large model. fig. 7 shows a screen- table 1: performance measurements. simple model complex model ifc version model size (mb) specification import (secs) model import (secs) enrichment duration (secs) checking (s) result extraction (s) logging and misc (s) total duration (s) rdf triples after import rdf triples after enrichment rdf triples after checking number of check results ifc4 0.269 0.593 3.432 0.934 0.017 0.010 0.049 5.035 37831 73619 73642 23 ifc2x3 13.625 0.735 30.975 87.002 1.401 0.034 3.871 124.018 1796200 7715966 7716336 637 shot of the current report layout. admittedly, the re- sult presentation merits improvement, yet it already provides crucial information regarding which bim model elements do not fulfill the earlier specified check (cf. fig. 2). in synopsis, our proposal delivers advances to existing work by introducing a generic, open-source platform for model checking of bim models that (i) allows for the definition of custom rules, (ii) provides full transparency regarding which rules are imple- mented how, and (iii), supports checking bim mod- els of considerable size (cf. fig. 6) in a reasonable time. currently, the specification needs to be de- veloped manually, yet, as suggested by zhang & el-gohary (2017) and zhou & el-gohary (2021), natural language processing (nlp) provides an avenue for the automated generation of specifica- tions from regulation bodies. figure 7: results of evaluating the sample check from fig. 2 against the bim model from fig. 6. conclusion in this paper, a general-purpose checking frame- work for the analysis of ifc-based bim models was introduced. alongside the checking engine, an opinionated layout for specification implemen- tations was developed. the checking engine re- ceives an ifc building model and a specification implementation as input. the specification is then tested on the imported building model using se- mantic reasoning. the output of the checking pro- cedure is a list of check results. to showcase the functionality, a sample specification was developed and tested on two bim models with different ifc versions. the evaluation of the checking proce- dure on both building models shows, that the pro- posed implementation can successfully test specifi- cations on different building models in a reasonable amount of time. in future work we plan to improve our solutions performance and reporting facilities and investigate the application of nlp for the au- tomated generation of specifications from building standards. acknowledgment the research leading to these results has re- ceived funding from the austrian research pro- motion agency (ffg) under grant agreement no.: 898708, twinlight. references amor, r. & dimyadi, j. (2021), the promise of au- tomated compliance checking, developments in the built environment 5, 100039. antoniou, g. & harmelen, f. v. (2009), web ontol- ogy language: owl, handbook on ontologies pp. 91110. 62 apache foundation (2023), apache jena. url: https://jena.apache.org/ arenas, m. & prez, j. (2011), querying seman- in proceedings tic web data with sparql, of the thirtieth acm sigmod-sigact-sigart symposium on principles of database systems, pp. 305316. boje, c., guerriero, a., kubicki, s. & rezgui, y. (2020), towards a semantic construction digital twin: directions for future research, automation in construction 114, 103179. charef, r., emmitt, s., alaka, h. & fouchal, f. (2019), building information modelling adoption in the european union: an overview, journal of building engineering 25, 100777. eastman, c., min lee, j., suk jeong, y. & kook lee, j. (2009), automatic rule-based checking of building designs, automation in construction 18(8), 10111033. eclipse foundation (2023), eclipse ide. url: https://www.eclipse.org/ide/ gade, p. n., jensen, r. l. & svidt, k. (2021), prac- titioner experiences and requirements for rule translation used for building information model- based model checking, in cooperative design, visualization, and engineering: 18th interna- tional conference, cdve 2021, virtual event, october 2427, 2021, proceedings 18, pp. 84 96. gade, p. n. & svidt, k. (2021), exploration of practitioner experiences of flexibility and trans- parency to improve bim-based model checking systems, journal of information technology in construction 26, 10411060. giordano, l., martelli, a. & rossi, g. (1992), ex- tending horn clause logic with implication goals, theoretical computer science 95(1), 4374. hitzler, p. & van harmelen, f. (2010), a reasonable semantic web, semantic web 1(1-2), 3944. horrocks, i., patel-schneider, p. f., boley, h., tabet, s., grosof, b., dean, m. et al. (2004), swrl: a semantic web rule language combin- ing owl and ruleml, w3c member submission 21(79), 131. issa, r. r. a. & olbina, s., eds (2015), building in- formation modeling: applications and practices. jiang, l., shi, j. & wang, c. (2022), multi-ontology fusion and rule development to facilitate auto- mated code compliance checking using bim and rule-based reasoning, advanced engineering informatics 51, 101449. kalinichuk, s. (2015), building information mod- eling comprehensive overview, journal of sys- tems integration 6(3), 25. lee, y.-c., ghannad, p., dimyadi, j., lee, j.- k., solihin, w. & zhang, j. (2020), a compara- tive analysis of five rule-based model checking platforms, in construction research congress 2020, pp. 11271136. pauwels, p. & terkaj, w. (2016), express to owl for construction industry: towards a rec- ommendable and usable ifcowl ontology, au- tomation in construction 63, 100133. pauwels, p., zhang, s. & lee, y.-c. (2017), se- mantic web technologies in aec industry: a lit- erature overview, automation in construction 73, 145165. sacks, r., bloch, t., katz, m. & yosef, r. (2019), automating design review with artificial intelligence and bim: state of the art and re- search framework, in asce international con- ference on computing in civil engineering 2019, pp. 353360. sydora, c. & stroulia, e. (2019), towards rule- based model checking of building information models, in isarc. proceedings of the interna- tional symposium on automation and robotics in construction, vol. 36, pp. 13271333. tian, z., zhang, x., wei, s., du, s. & shi, x. (2021), a review of data-driven building perfor- mance analysis and design on big on-site build- ing performance data, journal of building engi- neering 41, 102706. wieringa, r. (2014), design science methodology for information systems and software engineer- ing, springer berlin heidelberg. xue, x. & zhang, j. (2022), regulatory informa- tion transformation ruleset expansion to support automated building code compliance checking, automation in construction 138, 104230. zhang, j. & el-gohary, n. m. (2017), integrating semantic nlp and logic reasoning into a unified system for fully-automated code checking, au- tomation in construction 73, 4557. zhou, p. & el-gohary, n. semantic information alignment of bims to computer- interpretable regulations using ontologies and deep learning, advanced engineering informat- ics 48, 101239. (2021), 63

==== TABLES ====
bim model specification checking pipeline model importer results inferencer checker extractor specification importer results [somecheck: (?s rdf:type myspec:door) (?s myspec:haswidth ?w) lessthan(?w, 813^^xsd:double) > (?s myspec:check_ibc_2015_section_1010_b myspec:fail)] [(?x rdf:type ifc2_3:ifcdoor) > (?x rdf:type myspec: door)] [(?x rdf:type ifc4:ifcdoor) > (?x rdf:type myspec: door)] specification.zip checks/ check1.jr check2.jr inference/ ontologies/ rdf1.ttl rdf2.ttl rules/ rules1.jr rules2.jr rules3.jr queries/ query1.sparql query2.sparql extraction/ extraction.sparql
==== IMAGES ====
P. Zech et al. 2024_page1_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page2_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page2_img2.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page3_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page3_img2.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page4_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page4_img2.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page5_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page5_img2.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page6_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page6_img2.jpeg
P. Zech et al. 2024_page6_img3.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page6_img4.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page7_img1.jpeg
P. Zech et al. 2024_page7_img2.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page7_img3.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page8_img1.png
P. Zech et al. 2024_page8_img2.png

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from p. zech et al. 2024_page1_img1.png --- tu liintn wien wbb - ld psc --- text from p. zech et al. 2024_page6_img2.jpeg --- pe eer wiezes iyi aca baeeceeeeeee
