==== TEXT ====
hierarchical representation and deep learningbased method for automatically transforming textual building codes into semantic computable requirements ruichuan zhang, s.m.asce1; and nora el-gohary, a.m.asce2 abstract: most of the existing automated compliance checking (acc) systems are unable to fully automatically convert building-code requirements, especially requirements that have hierarchically complex semantic and syntactic structures, into computer-processable forms. the state-of-the-art rule-based acc methods that are able to deal with complex requirements are based on information extraction and trans- formation rules, which are inflexible when applied to different types of regulatory documents. more research is thus needed to develop a flexible method to automatically process and understand requirements to support the downstream tasks in acc systems, such as information matching and compliance reasoning. to address this need, this paper proposes (1) a new representation of requirements, the requirement hierarchy, and (2) a deep learning-based method to automatically extract semantic relations between words from building-code sentences, which are used to transform the sentences into such hierarchies. the proposed method was evaluated using a corpus of sentences from multiple regulatory documents. it achieved high semantic relation and requirement hierarchy extraction performance. doi: 10.1061/ (asce)cp.1943-5487.0001014.  2022 american society of civil engineers. author keywords: requirement representation; semantic relation extraction; code checking; deep learning; semi-supervised learning. introduction building designs are governed by a variety of regulatory documents (e.g., building codes, standards, and specifications) in the archi- tecture, engineering, and construction (aec) domain. to reduce the time, cost, and error of the process of checking the compliance of building designs with these regulatory documents, various auto- mated compliance checking (acc) systems have been developed. existing acc systems require that the regulatory information (e.g., subjects, compliance checking attributes, and quantity val- ues and units) is first extracted from natural-language regulatory- document sentences and converted into computer-processable forms. although these acc systems have achieved different levels of au- tomation, representativeness, and accuracy, most of them are unable to extract and convert the regulatory information in a fully automated way (nawari 2019; bloch and sacks 2020; sacks et al. 2020). this can be attributed to two factors/challenges: (1) the complexity of the task at hand, in terms of text characteristics and level of analytics needed, and (2) the limitations of the approaches used. automatically converting natural-language requirements into computable rules is not an easy task, for two reasons. first, different from other types of text (e.g., social media posts), sentences in regu- latory documents usually have hierarchically complex semantic and syntactic structures (e.g., nested clauses, conjunctive and alternative obligations, multiple restrictions or exceptions, see fig. 1) (zhou and 1graduate student, dept. of civil and environmental engineering, univ. of illinois at urbanachampaign, 205 n. mathews ave., urbana, il 61801. email: rzhang65@illinois.edu 2associate professor, dept. of civil and environmental engineering, univ. of illinois at urbanachampaign, 205 n. mathews ave., urbana, il 61801 (corresponding author). email: gohary@illinois.edu note. this manuscript was submitted on june 24, 2021; approved on november 23, 2021; published online on june 30, 2022. discussion period open until november 30, 2022; separate discussions must be submitted for individual papers. this paper is part of the journal of computing in civil engineering,  asce, issn 0887-3801. el-gohary 2017), and thus are more challenging for computers to automatically process, represent, and understand. second, different from other applications (e.g., sentiment analysis or shallow informa- tion extraction; see marzouk and enaba 2019; akanbi and zhang 2021), acc requires full understanding of the text to correctly cap- ture the meaning of the requirements, including alternatives, restric- tions, and exceptions, etc. (beach et al. 2020; solihin et al. 2020; xue and zhang 2020), which adds to the challenge. the second factor is the limitations of the approaches used. first, most of the existing acc methods that can represent, process, or check regulatory requirements are not fully automated, and thus require intensive human effort. for example, manual encoding- based acc methods require professionals to read the regulatory text and then encode these sentences into computer-processable forms, such as the building environment rule and analysis lan- guage (lee et al. 2015), regulatory knowledge query language (dimyadi et al. 2016), and visual language for compliance check- ing (preidel and borrmann 2016). annotation-based acc methods require professionals to read the regulatory text and then annotate the sentences with a set of predefined semantic labels or markups that indicate the semantic roles or the semantic relations between these roles in the context of compliance checking. for example, hjelseth and nisbet (2011) defined the requirement, application, selection, and exception (rase) markups to manually annotate the sentences from the international building code (ibc) via the smartcodes user interface for supporting compliance check- ing. second, even the efforts that have achieved full automation, which are very limited in number, have scalability limitations. for example, rule-based methods have achieved state-of-the-art performance in extracting regulatory information and transforming the extracted information into computer-processable forms, while only requiring limited human effort (e.g., zhang and el-gohary 2013; li et al. 2016; zhou and el-gohary 2017; kim et al. 2019). however, rule-based methods usually lack flexibility and scalability, because the rules for extraction are developed manually by experts and may need to be updated or adapted when applied to  asce 04022022-1 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 1. example building-code sentences with different levels of semantic and syntactic complexities. a different type of regulatory document or when the document goes through major updates. in contrast, machine learning methods, in- stead of relying on hand-crafted rules, develop computational mod- els that automatically capture the underlying semantic and syntactic patterns of the training text and have a good capability of general- izing to a variety of text. particularly, deep learning approaches have shown increased capabilities in text analytics (lecun et al. 2015). however, such deep learning methods have not been lever- aged in analyzing the semantic and syntactic structures of aec domain-specific regulatory text in the context of acc. to address the aforementioned challenges, this paper proposes a deep learning-based approach to automatically convert building- code sentences, especially the structurally complex ones, into smaller, easier-to-digest, and less-complex interconnected units of requirements for facilitating the succeeding steps of acc, such as compliance reasoning. the proposed approach is threefold. first, this paper proposes a new representation of requirements for supporting acc-related building-code analyticsthe require- ment hierarchyto decompose the sentences into interconnected requirement units. each requirement hierarchy consists of one or more requirement units and the dependencies between the units, with each unit representing a simple requirement or condition that can be processed by most of the existing acc systems. second, the paper proposes a set of semantic relations between words in sentences, which are used to segment and link the units and con- struct the requirement hierarchies. third, the paper proposes a deep learning-based method to automatically extract these seman- tic relations and transform the building-code sentences with the relations into requirement hierarchies. the proposed method uses a semi-supervised learning strategy to train the deep learning models on both labeled and unlabeled building-code text data. background semantic representations of natural-language requirements in the aec domain, different types of semantic representations have been developed and used for representing, processing, and checking natural-language requirements by computers in acc systems. for example, hjelseth and nisbet (2011) proposed a set of markups including rase for supporting the annotation of normative requirements. solihin and eastman (2016) used concep- tual graphs to represent building-code requirements, where nodes and edges represent the entities and relations contained in the re- quirements. sydora and stroulia (2020) developed a building infor- mation modeling (bim)-based rule language for describing interior design rules. yurchyshyna and zarli (2009) and xu and cai (2020) used modeling languages such as the sparql protocol and the resource description framework (rdf) query language to re- present requirements as queries to the bim models. huler et al. (2021) adopted the business process model and notation (bpmn) and decision model and notation (dmn), which are graphical rep- resentations for specifying business and management processes, for supporting rule representation. despite the importance of these representations, they are limited in supporting fully automated (i.e., without manually crafted rules or human annotations) conver- sion of natural-language requirements into computable rules. deep learning for text analytics deep learning methods use computational models that consist of multiple layers to capture different levels of information represen- tations from large-scale data (lecun et al. 2015). deep learning methods have drastically improved the state-of-the-art performance types in automatically processing and understanding different of data, including image, video, and text, and have reduced or eliminated the manual effort in feature engineering compared to traditional machine learning methods. recurrent neural networks (rnn) are deep learning models consisting of internal states specifi- cally designed to process sequential data, such as text (sequences of words) and time series (sequences of quantity values). however, original rnn units suffer from vanishing gradient problems and are unable to capture long-term dependencies. thus, two variants of the original rnn units, long short-term memories (lstm) (greff et al. 2016) and gated recurrent units (gru) (cho et al. 2014) have been proposed and adopted. rnn have been widely used in natural language understanding tasks, including machine translation [e.g., sequence-to-sequence rnn model for machine translation by sutskever et al. (2014)], semantic analysis [e.g., bidirectional lstm and multiplayer per- ceptron (mlp) for dependency parsing and part-of-speech tagging by clark et al. (2018)], and information extraction [e.g., bidirec- tional lstm and conditional random fields (crf) for extracting  asce 04022022-2 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. named entities by lample et al. (2016)]. however, only limited research efforts have been focused on rnn-based methods to solve text analysis problems in the aec domain. pan and zhang (2020) developed rnn-based models to mine information from bim log data to support design decisions. zhang and el-gohary (2020) de- veloped encoder-decoder models that consist of lstm layers to generate semantically enriched building-code sentences to facilitate automatic semantic analysis of regulatory documents. zhang and el-gohary (2021b) used bidirectional lstm and crf with transfer learning strategies for extracting semantic and syntactic informa- tion elements (e.g., subjects, compliance checking attributes, and quantity values and units) from building-code sentences for sup- porting compliance checking. semi-supervised learning semi-supervised learning is a machine learning approach that learns from both labeled and unlabeled data. semi-supervised learning approaches combine the supervised and unsupervised learning approaches by leveraging unlabeled data to improve the performance, flexibility, and scalability of machine learning models trained using labeled data. examples of recent semi-supervised learning approaches in the domains of computer vision and natural language understanding include (1) creating labels for unlabeled data using labeling functions (e.g., ye and ling 2019; ratner et al. 2020; sohn et al. 2020), (2) capturing the underlying structures from both labeled and unlabeled data using data augmentation methods (e.g., miyato et al. 2018; berthelot et al. 2019; sohn et al. 2020), and (3) improving the representativeness of deep learn- ing models by training the models simultaneously on both unla- beled and labeled data (e.g., clark et al. 2018; chen et al. 2020). semi-supervised learning-based methods have been pro- posed to solve various aec domain-specific tasks. for example, naganathan et al. (2016) used semi-supervised learning and clustering techniques to automate the identification of the loss factors contributing to energy loss during transmission for facili- tating building energy modeling. yang et al. (2016) used a semi- supervised learning algorithm to automatically detect near-miss falls in ironwork based on workers kinematic data captured from wearable inertial measurement units. liu and el-gohary (2017) used ontology-based semi-supervised crf for automated infor- mation extraction from bridge inspection reports. state of the art and knowledge gaps in semantic relation extraction semantic relation extraction aims to detect and classify the seman- tic relationships between words or phrases in natural-language text. examples of such relations include entity relations (e.g., ratner et al. 2020), event relations (e.g., wang et al. 2020), and word dependencies (e.g., liu and el-gohary 2021). rule-based semantic relation extraction methods use rules that are usually manually developed based on domain ontologies, dictionaries, gazetteers, knowledge bases, and/or syntactics (such as part-of-speech tags) for the extraction (e.g., ravikumar et al. 2017; farahmand et al. 2020). rule-based methods have been used in the aec domain to extract domain-specific semantic relations for supporting various downstream tasks. for example, al qady and kandil (2010) devel- oped rules based on the shallow parsing of sentences to extract semantic relations from construction contract documents for improv- ing document management. zhang and el-gohary (2013, 2015) developed a rule-based, semantic natural language processing ap- proach to extract information from regulatory documents, including building codes, and transform them into logic clauses for supporting acc. despite the wide use of rule-based methods, in general they do not scale well when the characteristics of the text changethe rules might need additions or modifications to deal with the different text characteristics (zhou and el-gohary 2017; sacks et al. 2020). machine learning-based methods, rather than relying on experts for developing relation extraction rules, employ machine learning models to automatically learn the semantic and syntactic patterns from existing text data, based on which the relations are detected from new text data. supervised learning-based relation extraction methods (e.g., wang et al. 2020; liu and el-gohary 2021) require labeled datatext data annotated with semantic relations. com- pared to rule-based methods, supervised learning-based methods have achieved a higher level of flexibility and scalability, but they often suffer from lack of training data due to the high cost of annotating the data. semi-supervised learning-based methods (e.g., ratner et al. 2020; hu et al. 2020), on the other hand, allow for improving the models trained on small-scale labeled data using large-scale unlabeled data. in the acc domain, there is a lack of research efforts to leverage semi-supervised learning in building- code analytics, and most of the semantic relations studied in the aforementioned efforts (outside of the aec domain) cannot capture the semantic and syntactic structural characteristics of aec domain-specific regulatory text in the context of acc. proposed requirement hierarchy and semantic relations for supporting automated compliance checking requirement hierarchy this paper proposes a new semantic representationrequirement hierarchyto model building-code requirements, including hier- archically complex requirements with restrictions and/or exceptions, for automated representation, processing, and understanding of these requirements for supporting acc. a requirement hierarchy aims to represent a building-code requirement in a hierarchical structure that consists of several requirement units and the dependencies between these units. a requirement unit consists only of essential semantic infor- mation elements, and describes a requirement or a constraint on a subject or a compliance checking attribute for supporting compliance checking. thus, each unit has one subject, one com- pliance checking attribute, or both, and may or may not have other types of information elements. each unit does not have any sec- ondary semantic information elements, such as restrictions and exceptions, and thus is easily processable by most of the existing acc methods and applications. see table 1 for the essential se- mantic information elements and their definitions (zhang and el-gohary 2013, 2021b). there are two types of dependencies between the requirement units: simple and complex dependencies. simple dependencies in- clude conjunctions (e.g., and) and disjunctions (e.g., or). com- plex dependencies include exceptions (e.g., egress doors shall be side-hinged swinging type, except for doors serving a bathroom within a sleeping unit in group r-1) and restrictions (e.g., the door between a private garage and a dwelling unit) (icc 2018). the re- strictions can be further classified as locative, attributive, and other restrictions (e.g., restrictions indicating the time, manner, or purpose) in terms of the content of the restriction or how the restriction is ap- plied to the restricted requirement unit. the restrictions can also be classified as subject restrictions, attribute restrictions, and quantity restrictions, in terms of the type of semantic information element the restricted requirement unit is applied to.  asce 04022022-3 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 1. semantic information elements for representing requirements for compliance checking semantic information element subject subject relation compliance checking attribute deontic operator indicator quantitative relation comparative relation quantity value quantity unit reference definition an ontology concept representing a thing (e.g., building element) that is subject to a particular requirement a term or phrase that defines the type of relation between two subjects, a subject and an attribute, or a subject or an attribute and a quantity an ontology concept representing a specific characteristic of a subject that is checked for compliance a term/phrase that indicates the deontic type of the requirement (i.e., obligation, permission, or prohibition) a term/phrase that defines the type of relation for the quantity (e.g., extend) a term/phrase for comparing quantitative values, including greater than or equal to, greater than, less than or equal to, less than, and equal to a numerical value that defines the quantity the unit of measure for a quantity value a term or phrase that denotes the mentioning or reference to a chapter, section, document, table, or equation in a regulatory document fig. 2 shows an example building-code sentence from ibc 2018 (icc 2018) and the requirement hierarchy corresponding to the sentence. the example sentence is modeled as a requirement hier- archy consisting of three requirement units, where unit 1 is the main unit and units 2 and 3 are restrictions of the main unit. semantic relations this paper proposes a set of semantic relations to (1) link single words in a regulatory sentence/requirement into multi-terms con- cepts (i.e., the semantic information elements), (2) link these se- mantic information elements into requirement units, and (3) link these requirement units into a requirement hierarchy. four types of relations were defined: inner information element, inner require- ment unit, inter requirement unit, and root semantic relations. an inner information element relation is a relation between two words, where the words belong to a single semantic or syntactic informa- tion element in a requirement unit. an inner requirement unit re- lation is a relation between two words, where the words belong to a single requirement unit, but to two different information elements. an inter requirement unit relation is a relation between two words, where the words belong to two different requirement units. an inter requirement unit relation may also exist between words in different sentences that form a single requirement (i.e., a multi-sentence re- quirement); however, for this paper, the analysis of semantic rela- tions and requirement hierarchies is at the level of the individual sentence. a root semantic relation is a relation that denotes the starting word for transforming a sentence annotated with semantic relations into a requirement hierarchy. thus, each sentence must have one and only one word associated with the root relation. fig. 3 shows the semantic relations between the words in the example building-code sentence (same as the sentence used in fig. 2). proposed deep learning-based method for semantic relation and requirement hierarchy extraction the proposed deep learning-based method is composed of two primary components: (1) a deep learning model for semantic rela- tion extraction, and (2) an algorithm for transforming regulatory sentences with semantic relations into requirement hierarchies. the research methodology included five main steps, as per fig. 4: data preparation, semantic relation extraction model development, model training using a semi-supervised learning strategy, semantic relation-based requirement hierarchy construction, and evaluation. an example to illustrate how the requirement hierarchies are ex- tracted from building codes using the proposed method is shown in fig. 5. data preparation labeled data preparation the labeled dataregulatory sentences that are represented in the form of the requirement hierarchy and are labeled with the four se- mantic relationswere prepared for training the semantic relation extraction model and evaluation. the labeled data were prepared following three steps: corpus preparation, sentence selection, and an- notation. first, a small-scale corpus was constructed, which consists of text from multiple codes and standards in the aec domain, fig. 2. example building-code sentence with its corresponding requirement hierarchy.  asce 04022022-4 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 3. example building-code sentence annotated with semantic relations. fig. 4. research methodology. fig. 5. semantic relation and requirement hierarchy extraction using proposed method. including the ibc, international energy conservation code (iecc), americans with disabilities act (ada) standards for accessible design, and building-code amendments (e.g., the champaign ibc amendments). all documents were converted to text file format (i.e., *.txt) and combined into a single corpus. the corpus was then converted to sentences following two steps: sentence segmentation and sentence tokenization. sentence segmentation aims to detect the sentence boundaries (e.g., punctuations) and to segment the text into sentences. sentence tokenization aims to further split the sentences into tokens (e.g., words). second, a group of 600 sentences, which consists of about 15,000 words, were randomly selected from the developed corpus. the selected sentences have different levels of computability, which is defined as the ability of the building-code sentence to be represented and processed by a computer in an effec- tive manner (zhang and el-gohary 2021a). third, a group of four expertstwo from academia (faculty) and two from industry annotated each word in the selected sentences with the proposed semantic relations. a purposive sampling strategy, which pinpoints  asce 04022022-5 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. specific types of participants according to predefined selection criteria (clark and creswell 2008), was adopted for selecting the ex- perts. the main selection criteria were (1) expertise in the aec do- main, (2) familiarity with building codes and compliance checking processes, and (3) awareness of natural language processing and text analytics techniques. each expert independently annotated the entire set of selected sentences, and the initial inter-annotator agreement was 80% in f1 measure, indicating good reliability of the annota- tions (pestian et al. 2012). the discrepancies among the annotations were then resolved by the experts to reach full agreement on the final annotations. the labeled data were split into two sets using a 91 ratio: the training and validation dataset and the testing dataset. the training dataset was further split into a training set (for training the model) and a validation set (for tuning the hyperparameters of the model) for cross-validation. the testing dataset was used for evalu- ation only. (2) local unlabeled data preparation the unlabeled dataa large corpus consisting of sentences and sentence fragments from a collection of multiple regulatory docu- ments in the aec domainwere prepared for training the semantic relation extraction model using a semi-supervised learning strategy. the corpus consists of 20,000 sentences, or about 200,000 tokens, and the size of the entire corpus is 100 megabytes (mb). the col- lection used to build the corpus includes four main types of regu- latory documents: (1) building codes published by the international code council (icc) (e.g., ibc, iecc, international residential code), regulatory documents in the aec domain (e.g., champaign building-code amendments), (3) standard speci- fications (e.g., masterformat specifications), and (4) other regula- tory documents (e.g., occupational safety and health standard, 29 cfr 1910). the documents of different formats were converted to the *.txt format and combined into a single file. the file was then cleaned based on heuristic rules that (1) filter out noises introduced during file format conversion, (2) filter out short-word sequences or fragments that are likely to have no semantic relations (e.g., section headings and standalone words and phrases), and (3) filter out non- textual sequences (e.g., sequences of symbols, numbers, and units converted from equations and tables in the documents). an exam- ple of the rules used is: remove candidate sentences and sentence fragments that (1) have less than 20 characters or have less than five tokens, (2) do not have verbs of any form, or (3) start with section indices. semantic relation extraction model development the deep learning model (dozat and manning 2016)lstm with mlpwas adopted as the base model for extracting the semantic relations from the regulatory sentences, where lstm learns the representations of words (or tokens) in the sentences to extract the semantic relations, and mlp further classifies the extracted re- lations given the learnt representations. the model consists of three layers: input, encoding, and output, as shown in fig. 6. input layer the input layer aims to represent the semantics of each word in a vector representation for deep neural network computation pur- poses. pretrained word embeddings were used to initialize the weights in the input layer. pretrained word embeddings are vector representations of words learned on a large, cross-domain corpus by training a machine learning model on the corpus. the word em- beddings that were learned by applying the global vectors for word representation (glove) algorithm (pennington et al. 2014) on a corpus consisting of wikipedia 2014 and gigaword 5 were adopted. the adopted word representations consist of vector rep- resentations of 40,000 uncased english words, which have a dimension of 300. encoding layer the encoding layer aims to further learn the contextual vector rep- resentations of each word in the input sentence that is discrimina- tive in terms of the semantic relation extraction task. two strategies were adopted when developing the encoding layer for improved semantic relation extraction performance. first, to enhance the capability of the model to capture long-term semantic and syntactic dependencies that exist in hierarchically complex regulatory sen- tences, bidirectional lstm layers were employed. each such layer consists of a backward and a forward lstm layer for using the representations of both forward and backward context words when learning the representation of the current word. second, to improve the capability of the model in reducing over- fitting, dropout layers were added. the layers drop a random frac- tion of the lstm units in the encoding layer during the training of the model, according to dropout probabilities. two dropout prob- abilities were used, one for training using the unlabeled data and the other using the labeled data. typically, the dropout probabilities are between 0 and 0.5, which means that less than half of the lstm units are dropped and the rest of the lstm units are retained. the dropout layers are disabled during the evaluation and future use of fig. 6. deep learning model for extracting semantic relations from regulatory sentences: architecture and example.  asce 04022022-6 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. the semantic relation extraction model (i.e., use in the acc system). the probability of c given the input word x generated by the softmax layer in the output layer of the model ls  1 jdj x x x;yd cc 1yc log pcjx 1 on unlabeled data, following the semi-supervised learning method of clark et al. (2018), unsupervised learning components with different views of the input (i.e., only part of the sentence) are trained to agree with the supervised component. the model is trained on the unlabeled data following three steps. first, for each word in a sentence in the unlabeled data, modified versions of the original sentence were created by removing the preceding or fol- lowing words in the sentence. second, the original and modified sentences were provided separately to the semantic relation extrac- tion model as input. third, the objective function lu that describes the difference between the probability distribution generated by the output layer for the original sentences (from the supervised com- ponent), denoted as po  cjx, and the probability distribution gen- erated by the output layer m for the modified sentences (from the unsupervised components), denoted as pm  cjx, is minimized, as shown in eq. (2) (clark et al. 2018), where d is the batch of un- labeled data, m is the set of all output layers for modified sentences for unsupervised learning, and kl is the kullbackleibler diver- gence. the parameters of the output layer for supervised learning are fixed and only the parameters of the other layers are updated during the training on the unlabeled data. by being trained to min- imize the difference between these probability distributions, the model improves its ability to capture contextual syntactic and se- mantic information that can support semantic relation extraction lu  1 jdj x x xd mm klpo  cjxjjpm  cjx 2 semantic relation-based requirement hierarchy construction a hybrid width and depth first traversal-based algorithm was used to convert the regulatory sentences annotated with semantic relations to output layer for each pair of words in the regulatory sentence, the output layer aims to predict (1) whether there is a semantic relation linking the two words, and (2) the type of the semantic relation if it exists. the output layer consists of mlp layers and a softmax function. for two words d and h in a sentence, given their encoded representa- tions (denoted as zd and zh) generated by the encoding layers and a specific type of semantic relation r, the mlp layers computes a score [denoted as szd; zh; r]. for each word in the sentence, the scores corresponding to the word and all the other words in the sentence, with all possible types of relations, are normalized into a probability distribution through the softmax function. thus, the probability that a word d is linked to another word h by a specific type of semantic relation r is pd; h; r  sd; h; r= p  hw;rrsd; h; r(cid:2), where w is the set of all words in the sen- tence in which d and h are located and r is the set of all possible types of semantic relations. thus, for each word in a sentence of length jwj, the output layer evaluates all jwjjrj different semantic relations and the final semantic relation predicted by the output layer is the one that has the highest probability. model training to enable the training of the semantic relation extraction model on both labeled and unlabeled data, the semi-supervised train- ing strategy proposed by clark et al. (2018) was adopted. in each iteration during the training process, the model was first trained on a batch of labeled data [as shown in fig. 7(a)] and then trained on a batch of unlabeled data [as shown in fig. 7(b)], so that the model learns from the labeled and unlabeled data simultaneously. when the model is trained on the labeled data, the objective function ls that describes the difference between the semantic re- lation from the gold standard, denoted as y, and the semantic rela- tion c predicted by the model  for the word x, is minimized, as shown in eq. (1) (clark et al. 2018), where d is the batch of labeled data, c is the set of all possible semantic relations, and pcjx is (a) (b) fig. 7. semi-supervised learning strategy for adapting and training the semantic relation extraction model using (a) labeled data; and (b) unlabeled data.  asce 04022022-7 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 8. hybrid width and depth first traversal-based algorithm to convert regulatory sentences with semantic relations to requirement hierarchies. the form of the requirement hierarchy, as shown in fig. 8. for apply- ing this algorithm, two types of data structures were maintained. first, the sentence (i.e., words) with the semantic relations was mod- eled as a directed graph, where the words are the vertices and the semantic relations are the edges, and for each edge, its direction is from the node corresponding to the dependent word to the node cor- responding to the head word. second, the requirement hierarchy was constructed by updating three lists: two lists of requirement units, unfinished and finished requirement units, and one list of the depend- encies between requirement units. the algorithm consists of three main stages. first, the algorithm starts at the node corresponding to the word annotated with the root semantic relation. meanwhile, the unfinished requirement unit list is initialized with one empty requirement unit. second, the algo- rithm traverses the entire graph along the edges. at each node, the algorithm traverses the edges that point to the node, according to the following order: inner information element semantic relations, inner requirement unit semantic relations, and inter requirement unit semantic relations (as shown in fig. 8). the words correspond- ing to the traversed nodes and the semantic relations corresponding the traversed edges are added to the lists. third, the algorithm ter- minates when all the nodes are traversed. the finished requirement unit list and the dependency list together are the final requirement hierarchy. additionally, two rules are applied to index the requirement units and interpret the dependencies between the requirement units. first, the requirement units are indexed based on the order that they appear in the unfinished requirement unit list (e.g., the empty re- quirement unit contained in the unfinished requirement unit list when initialized is indexed as the first requirement unit), and the first requirement unit is the main requirement unit of the re- quirement hierarchy, which does not act as a restriction or an ex- ception to any other requirement units. second, the dependencies between two requirement units are interpreted based on the type of semantic relation that link the words in these two requirement unitsone requirement unit is a restriction or an exception to  asce 04022022-8 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. the other requirement unit if there is a inter requirement unit seman- tic relation linking a word (i.e., the dependent word) in the first requirement unit to a word (i.e., the head word) in the second re- quirement unit. experimental results and analysis a set of experiments were conducted to first optimize the hyper- parameters of the proposed model for cross-validation, and then to assess the performance of the proposed method in ablation studies to better understand the impact of the important components of the method. three ablation experiments were conducted to (1) evaluate the impact of the semi-supervised learning strategy by comparing the proposed semi-supervised method to a fully supervised method, (2) evaluate the impact of unlabeled training data, in terms of type and scale, and (3) evaluate the performance of the proposed method on different types of sentences, in terms of types of building codes/ standards and levels of computability. evaluation metrics semantic relation extraction evaluation two metrics were used to evaluate the semantic relation extraction performance: accuracy, and unlabeled attachment score (uas). accuracy (zhai and massung 2016) was used to evaluate the ex- tracted semantic relations in terms of relation types, as shown in eq. (3), where srt is the set of words that are labeled with the correct type of semantic relation and n is the total number of words in the regulatory sentence accuracy  jsrtj n 3 uas (buchholz and marsi 2006) was used to evaluate the ex- tracted semantic relations in terms of head word indices, as shown in eq. (4), where sri is the set of words that are linked to the correct head word and n is the total number of words in the regulatory sentence uas  jsrij n 4 requirement hierarchy extraction evaluation the labeled attachment score (las) (buchholz and marsi 2006) was used to evaluate the overall performance of the proposed method on extracting the requirement hierarchies from regulatory sentences, as shown in eq. (5), where sri is the set of words that are linked to the correct head word, srt is the set of words that are labeled with the correct type of semantic relation, and n is the total number of words in the sentence las  jsri  srtj n 5 semantic relation extraction model hyperparameter optimization the semantic relation extraction models and semi-supervised learn- ing strategies were implemented using tensorflow installed in python 2 and run using the tesla k80 gpu provided in google colaboratory. a five-fold cross-validation was conducted for opti- mizing the main hyperparameters of the model. for the cross- validation, the labeled training data were further split into two table 2. optimized main hyperparameters for semantic relation extraction models hyperparameter batch size for labeled training data batch size for unlabeled training data dimension of input layer dimension of bidirectional long short-term memories (lstm) layers in encoding layer dimension of output layer dropout rate for labeled data dropout rate for unlabeled data value 60 60 50 512 512 0.4 0.2 subsetsone set for model training and the other for model vali- dation. the values of other hyperparameters were determined based either on the characteristics of the sentences used in the experi- ments (e.g., the maximum sentence length is 100 and maximum token length is 20), or on the practices adopted by clark et al. (2018) (e.g., the base learning rate is 0.5). the values of the opti- mized main hyperparameters are provided in table 2. the hyperparameters were optimized through grid and random searches. for example, for the dropout rate for labeled data and the dropout rate for unlabeled data, three values were tested: 0 (i.e., no dropout), 0.2, and 0.4. thus, nine pairs of dropout rates were tested and compared in terms of all the evaluation metrics for both seman- tic relation extraction and requirement hierarchy extraction. the model achieved the highest performance when the dropout rates for unlabeled and labeled data were set as 0.4 and 0.2, respectively. the results indicate that models with no or very little dropout for any of the two types of data might overfit to the training data, while models with large dropout for any of the two types of data might underfit to the training data. comparison of the proposed semi-supervised and supervised methods in semantic relation extraction and requirement hierarchy extraction in addition to the proposed semi-supervised learning-based method, a supervised method was developed to serve as a baseline, and tested for comparative evaluation. the supervised method uses the semantic parser proposed by chen and manning (2014) and extracts the requirement hierarchies based on the generated semantic parsing trees. the two methods were trained on the same labeled training data and were evaluated using the same testing data. as provided in table 3, the proposed semi-supervised method achieved better semantic relation extraction performance: it outperformed the supervised method by 3.5% for accuracy, 3.0% for uas, and 3.2% for las. performance of the proposed approach using semi-supervised learning strategy with different unlabeled training data different types of unlabeled training data two types of unlabeled data were tested for comparative evalu- ation: the domain-general text datathe one billion word language model benchmark data (chelba et al. 2013), which consists of english news sentencesand the domain-specific text data. the one billion word language model benchmark data were selected for comparison because the dataset is used as a benchmark in many natural language understanding tasks, such as statistical language modeling (e.g., chelba et al. 2013) and semantic parsing (e.g., clark is not domain-specific. for this et al. 2018), and the dataset  asce 04022022-9 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 3. performance of proposed semi-supervised and supervised methods semantic relation extraction requirement hierarchy extraction requirement hierarchy extraction method accuracy (%) semi-supervised learning-based method supervised learning-based method 94.0 90.5 note: bolded font indicates highest performance. unlabeled attachment score (uas) (%) labeled attachment score (las) (%) 90.0 87.0 87.2 84.0 table 4. performance of proposed method across different types of unlabeled training data type of unlabeled training data domain-specific text domain-general text accuracy (%) 94.0 91.8 note: bolded font indicates highest performance. semantic relation extraction requirement hierarchy extraction unlabeled attachment score (uas) (%) 90.0 88.0 labeled attachment score (las) (%) 87.2 85.1 comparative evaluation, the model was trained using the same labeled data. as provided in table 4, the model achieved better performance when trained using domain-specific unlabeled data in terms of both semantic relation extraction and requirement hierarchy extraction the model trained using domain-specific unlabeled data outper- formed the one trained using general-domain unlabeled data by 2.2% for accuracy, 2.0% for uas, and 2.1% for las. the results indicate that the semantic and syntactic patterns in the domain- specific unlabeled data increased the ability of the model to extract semantic relations defined in the same domain, especially when pre- dicting semantic relation types. although the level of increase is not large, it shows the potential of enhancing the performance of domain-specific semantic relation extraction models by leveraging domain-specific unlabeled data. domain-specific text data prepared using more types of regulatory documents in the aec domain and with more tailored and elaborate data cleaning techniques could be tested in future research to further improve the benefit of using such data. different scales of unlabeled training data four different scales of unlabeled data were tested for comparative evaluation: large (100 mb, approximately 10,000,000 tokens), medium (10 mb, approximately 1,000,000 tokens), small (1 mb, approximately 100,000 tokens), and zero (0 mb, 0 tokens). for this comparative evaluation, the model was trained using the same labeled data. as provided in table 5, the model achieved the best perfor- mance when trained using the large-size data, in terms of both semantic relation extraction and requirement hierarchy extraction. for example, compared to the model trained without (zero) unla- beled data, the one trained using the large unlabeled data improved the accuracy by 3.2%, uas by 4.0%, and las by 3.4%. the results indicate that, as the scale of unlabeled training data increases, the model benefits from the semantic and syntactic patterns contained in the extra data and hence its performance increases. however, such increase (i.e., the increase of accuracy, uas, and las per token) gradually diminishes due to both the constraints on the ar- chitecture of the model (e.g., depth of the encoding layer) and the diversity and the relativeness of the semantic and syntactic patterns contained in the data. larger data sizes could be tested in future research to assess the upper bound of the performance increase and the amount of additional unlabeled data required to achieve such increase. performance of the proposed method on semantic relation extraction and hierarchy extraction across different types of regulatory sentences performance across different types of building codes and standards the trained semantic relation extraction model was evaluated using sentences from three different types of building codes and stan- dards: ibc, iecc, and ada standards. as indicated in table 6, the proposed method achieved high performance across all three types, for both semantic relation extraction and requirement hier- archy extraction, indicating that the proposed method has high scal- ability and flexibility across different types of building codes and standards. a slightly lower performance was shown for iecc, compared to the other two types, which is likely due to unseen table 5. performance of proposed method with different scales of unlabeled training data scale of unlabeled training data in megabytes (mb) and approximate number of tokens accuracy (%) unlabeled attachment score (uas) (%) labeled attachment score (las) (%) semantic relation extraction requirement hierarchy extraction large (100 mb, 10,000,000 tokens) medium (10 mb, 1,000,000 tokens) small (1 mb, 100,000 tokens) zero (0 mb, 0 tokens) note: bolded font indicates highest performance. 94.0 92.3 91.3 90.8 90.0 87.9 86.5 86.0 87.2 85.3 84.5 83.8  asce 04022022-10 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 6. performance of proposed method across different types of building codes and standards type of regulatory document accuracy (%) international building code international energy conservation code ada standards 95.0 93.0 95.0 unlabeled attachment score (uas) (%) labeled attachment score (las) (%) 91.8 86.9 92.0 88.9 83.4 89.3 semantic relation extraction requirement hierarchy extraction table 7. performance of proposed method across sentences with different levels of computability computability level of regulatory sentences moderately high moderately low low accuracy (%) 95.0 96.0 93.0 semantic relation extraction requirement hierarchy extraction unlabeled attachment score (uas) (%) labeled attachment score (las) (%) 92.1 91.2 89.4 89.2 89.5 85.9 syntactic and semantic patterns in the training data (e.g., iecc- specific tokens such as r-30). performance across sentences with different levels of computability the performance of the trained semantic relation extraction model was evaluated across sentences with three different levels of com- putability: moderately high, moderately low, and low, which are the top three types of sentences in terms of computability that appear most frequently in building codes (e.g., they account for 22%, 39%, and 23% of a corpus of sentences from ibc and its amendments, respectively) (zhang and el-gohary 2021a). sentences with differ- ent levels of computability have different semantic and syntactic structures. for example, sentences of moderately high computabil- ity have relatively simple syntactic and semantic structures, senten- ces of moderately low computability have relatively complex syntactic and semantic structures, and sentences of low computabil- ity have very complex syntactic and semantic structures. table 7 gives the performance of the proposed method across sentences with different levels of computability, in terms of both semantic relation extraction and requirement hierarchy extraction. as expected, the performance decreased for low-computability sen- tences. however, high performance (i.e., over 90% for accuracy, and over 85% for both uas and las) was still achieved for all three types, which indicates that the method has high scalability and flex- ibility. given their complexity, the performance level achieved on moderately low- and low-computability sentences additionally indi- cates that the proposed method is able to extract semantic relations and requirement hierarchies from hierarchically complex sentences. error analysis two types of errors were identified based on the experimental re- sults. first, the proposed method showed some errors when dealing with multiword expressions or concepts that are domain-specific and include prepositions. for example, the semantic relation (i.e., inner information element relation) within the multiword expression path of egress (i.e., a subject in the requirement) was not correctly extracted. second, some errors occurred in segment- ing the requirement units, which was caused by errors in differen- tiating between the inter requirement unit relation and the inner requirement unit relation. for example, the semantic relation be- tween span and concrete in the sentence fragment the clear span of the gypsum concrete is an inner requirement unit relation, because the entire sentence fragment forms a part of a requirement unit. however, the method misclassified it as an inter requirement unit, and thus segmented the clear span and of the gypsum concrete into two different requirement units. such error also ap- peared for sentences with low computability. for example, consider the following sentence: the area of a group h-2 aircraft paint hangar no more than one story above grade plane shall not be limited where such aircraft is surrounded and adjoined by public ways or yards not less in width than one and one-half time the building height (icc 2018). it has four requirement units: the area of a group h-2 aircraft paint hangar shall not be limited, a group h-2 aircraft paint hangar no more than one story above grade plane, such aircraft is surrounded and adjoined by public ways or yards, and not less in width than one and one-half time the building height. however, the method failed to segment these requirement units correctly due to the high syntactic and semantic complexity of the sentence. limitations two limitations related to the proposed semantic relation and requirement hierarchy extraction method and the conducted experi- ments are acknowledged. first, the proposed method was well-tested on individual building-code sentences, but not on multi-sentence requirements. additional experiments are needed to further evalu- ate the performance of the proposed method on multi-sentence requirements, where both the proposed semantic relations and re- quirement hierarchy and the proposed method would be directly applied, but additional efforts would be needed for preparing both the labeled (e.g., expert annotation of semantic relations) and unla- beled domain-specific data (e.g., heuristic rules for text cleaning). second, although the proposed method and the proposed semantic relations and requirement hierarchy have successfully addressed different text characteristics and different levels of computability for different building codes and standards, they cannot address the semantic representation and interpretation problems for all types of requirements, such as requirements that have hidden dependencies or assumptions (solihin and eastman 2015, 2016) or requirements that require human judgment by nature. further research is needed to study the limit of the performance of such machine learning-based methods on these challenging types of re- quirements, by (1) using a larger scale of labeled data or unlabeled  asce 04022022-11 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. data, or data with more diversified semantic and syntactic patterns, (2) exploring more deep learning model structures (e.g., trans- former-based models), and (3) integrating additional external knowledge (e.g., legal practices) either in the current acc process (i.e., information extraction and transformation), or in downstream acc processes (e.g., compliance reasoning and information match- ing or disambiguation). contributions to the body of knowledge this paper contributes to the body of knowledge in five main ways. first, the paper proposes a new representation, the requirement hi- erarchy, to represent building-code requirements for supporting downstream acc processes. the requirement hierarchy consists of requirement units, each of which further consists of semantic information elements that define a simple requirement or a condi- tion, and dependencies between the units. the requirement hier- archy could facilitate automated (or semi-automated, if desired) compliance checking by enabling the decomposition of hierarchi- cally complex requirements into units that are simple and readily processable by many of the existing acc systems, and represent- ing and visualizing the semantic and syntactic structures for better comprehension of complex requirements. second, the paper pro- poses a set of semantic relations between words in regulatory- document sentences, which can be used as features not only for requirement hierarchy extraction, but also in other regulatory text analytics tasks, such as requirement or sentence classification and knowledge graph extraction. third, the paper offers a method to extract requirement hierarchies from building codes and standards. it is the first effort to automatically extract requirement hierarchies to facilitate the analysis of hierarchically complex regulatory sen- tences for supporting acc. the proposed method showed high per- formance across different types of regulatory documents and across sentences with different levels of computability. fourth, it is the first effort to use a deep learning model that consists of lstm and mlp to extract semantic relations from building codes and train the model using a semi-supervised learning strategy. fifth, this research leveraged both labeled data and large-scale unlabeled text data to enhance the performance of the proposed method, increase the scalability and flexibility of the method, and most importantly, significantly reduce the effort to prepare the labeled data for train- ing the deep learning models. conclusions and future work in this paper, the requirement hierarchy, a new representation for representing aec regulatory requirements, was proposed to decompose sentences, especially hierarchically complex ones, into much smaller and manageable requirement units that would be directly processable using most of the existing acc methods. the requirement hierarchy consists of requirement units and dependen- cies between these units. to facilitate the extraction of such require- ment hierarchies, a set of semantic relations between words in regulatory sentences was also proposed. a deep learning model that consists of bi-directional lstm and mlp was used for extracting the hierarchies from regulatory-document sentences. two types of datalabeled data, which consist of sentences annotated with semantic relations, and unlabeled data, which consists of aec domain-specific regulatory text without any annotationwere pre- pared for training and evaluating the model. the model was trained using a semi-supervised learning strategy. it was alternatingly trained on the unlabeled and labeled training data, and the super- vised and unsupervised losses were minimized, so that the model can learn from the semantic and syntactic patterns contained in both types of training data. the extracted semantic relations and the original sentences were transformed into requirement hierarchies using a hybrid width and depth first traversal-based algorithm, with rules for indexing the requirement units and interpreting the dependencies between the units. the proposed semantic relation model was trained on 100 mb of unlabeled text data from multiple types of regulatory documents in the aec domain, and labeled data that consisted of 540 anno- tated sentences from the ibc, iecc, and ada standards. the trained model achieved an accuracy of 94.0%, a uas of 90.0%, and a las of 87.2%, indicating high semantic relation and requirement hierarchy extraction performance. the model achieved high perfor- mance across different types of regulatory documents including ibc, iecc, and ada standards, and across regulatory sentences with different levels of computability. the experimental results also showed that the semi-supervised learning strategy improves the performance of the relation extrac- tion model by providing more semantic and syntactic patterns con- tained in the unlabeled training data. the results also showed that the models performance increases when the amount of training data increases and domain-specific unlabeled training data is used, indicating the potential of the proposed method to achieve higher relation extraction performance if more unlabeled, domain-specific text data is used, which is significantly less costly to prepare than labeled, domain-specific text data. in their future work, the authors plan to improve the proposed method and leverage the semantic relation extraction model in four directions. first, different deep learning model designs could be tested to enhance the semantic relation extraction performance. for example, different model architectures (e.g., adding more lstm layers in the encoding layer) and recent deep neural network ad- vances (e.g., transformers and attention mechanisms) could be ex- plored. second, different semi-supervised learning strategies could be explored for leveraging large-scale, pattern-rich unlabeled text data in the aec domain. third, the performance and flexibility of the model could be further improved by increasing the amount, quality, and relevance of the unlabeled training data. for example, text from more types of regulatory documents in the aec domain, such as local building-code amendments and contracts, could be used. fourth, and most importantly, the authors will further use the proposed semantic relation-based requirement hierarchy extrac- tion method to improve automated processing and understanding of building codes, and to integrate it with downstream processes such as information matching and compliance reasoning. our ultimate goal is to leverage machine learning and other artificial intelligence (ai) approaches to reach a level where users can automatically pro- cess the entire building code and represent it in a computable man- ner for fully automated compliance checking, with minimum manual effort in developing the underlying models (e.g., for pre- paring the training and testing data and for adapting the models to different types of building codes). fifth, beyond automated com- pliance checking applications, future research could explore how the proposed requirement representation could support further code- and contract-analytics processes, such as detecting conflict- ing or onerous requirements. the computability of the represen- tation, as well as its structured and semantic nature, would help leverage automated analytics and ai techniques to support further diagnostic analytics tasks to identify potential conflicts among different requirements within one document (e.g., a specific code) or across multiple documents (e.g., codes vs. specifications), de- tect onerous contractual requirements, or diagnose other unfair situations like one-sided contractual agreements.  asce 04022022-12 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. data availability statement some or all data, models, or code generated or used during the study are available from the corresponding author by request (trained semantic relation extraction model and labeled gold stan- dard data). acknowledgments the authors would like to thank the national science foundation (nsf). this material is based on work supported by the nsf under grant no. 1827733. any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the nsf. references akanbi, t., and j. zhang. 2021. design information extraction from con- struction specifications to support cost estimation. autom. constr. 131 (nov): 103835. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103835. al qady, m., and a. kandil. 2010. concept relation extraction from con- struction documents using natural language processing. j. constr. eng. manage. 136 (3): 294302. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)co.1943 -7862.0000131. beach, t. h., j.-l. hippolyte, and y. rezgui. 2020. towards the adoption of automated regulatory compliance checking in the built environment. autom. constr. 118 (oct): 103285. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2020.103285. berthelot, d., n. carlini, i. goodfellow, n. papernot, a. oliver, and c. raffel. 2019. mixmatch: a holistic approach to semi-supervised learn- ing. preprint, submitted may 6, 2019. https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.02249. bloch, t., and r. sacks. 2020. clustering information types for semantic enrichment of building information models to support automated code compliance checking. j. comput. civ. eng. 34 (6): 04020040. https:// doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000922. buchholz, s., and e. marsi. 2006. conll-x shared task on multilingual dependency parsing. in proc., 10th conf. on computational natural language learning (conll-x), 149164. stroudsburg, pa: associa- tion for computational linguistics. chelba, c., t. mikolov, m. schuster, q. ge, t. brants, p. koehn, and t. robinson. 2013. one billion word benchmark for measuring progress in statistical language modeling. preprint, submitted december 11, 2013. https://arxiv.org/abs/1312.3005. chen, d., and c. d. manning. 2014. a fast and accurate dependency parser using neural networks. in proc., 2014 conf. on empirical meth- ods in natural language processing (emnlp), 740750. stroudsburg, pa: association for computational linguistics. chen, t., s. kornblith, k. swersky, m. norouzi, and g. hinton. 2020. big self-supervised models are strong semi-supervised learners. preprint, submitted june 17, 2020. https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.10029. cho, k., b. van merrinboer, c. gulcehre, d. bahdanau, f. bougares, h. schwenk, and y. bengio. 2014. learning phrase representations for statistical machine translation. using rnn encoder-decoder preprint, submitted june 3, 2014. https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.1078. clark, k., m.-t. luong, c. d. manning, and q. v. le. 2018. semi- supervised sequence modeling with cross-view training. preprint, submitted september 22, 2018. https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.08370. clark, v., and j. creswell. 2008. the mixed methods readers. thousand oaks, ca: sage. dimyadi, j., p. pauwels, and r. amor. 2016. modelling and accessing regulatory knowledge for computer-assisted compliance audit. j. inf. technol. construct. 21: 317336. dozat, t., and c. d. manning. 2016. deep biaffine attention for neural dependency parsing. preprint, submitted november 6, 2016. https:// arxiv.org/abs/1611.01734. farahmand, s., t. riley, and k. zarringhalam. 2020. modex: a text min- ing system for extracting mode of regulation of transcription factor-gene regulatory interaction. j. biomed. inf. 102 (feb): 103353. https://doi .org/10.1016/j.jbi.2019.103353. greff, k., r. k. srivastava, j. koutnk, b. r. steunebrink, and j. schmidhuber. 2016. lstm: a search space odyssey. ieee trans. neural networks learn. syst. 28 (10): 22222232. https://doi.org/10 .1109/tnnls.2016.2582924. huler, m., s. esser, and a. borrmann. 2021. code compliance check- ing of railway designs by integrating bim, bpmn and dmn. autom. constr. 121 (jan): 103427. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020 .103427. hjelseth, e., and n. nisbet. 2011. exploring semantic based model check- ing. accessed january 1, 2021. https://www.irbnet.de/daten/iconda /cib21890.pdf. hu, x., c. zhang, f. ma, c. liu, l. wen, and p. s. yu. 2020. semi- supervised relation extraction via incremental meta self-training. preprint, submitted october 6, 2020. https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.16410. icc (international code council). 2018. 2018 international building code. washington, dc: icc. kim, h., j.-k. lee, j. shin, and j. choi. 2019. visual language approach to representing kbimcode-based korea building code sentences for au- tomated rule checking. j. comput. des. eng. 6 (2): 143148. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.jcde.2018.08.002. lample, g., m. ballesteros, s. subramanian, k. kawakami, and c. dyer. 2016. neural architectures for named entity recognition. preprint, submitted march 4, 2016. https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01360. lecun, y., y. bengio, and g. hinton. 2015. deep learning. nature 521 (7553): 436444. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature14539. lee, j.-k., c. m. eastman, and y. c. lee. 2015. implementation of a bim domain-specific language for the building environment rule and analy- sis. j. intell. rob. syst. 79 (3): 507522. https://doi.org/10.1007 /s10846-014-0117-7. li, s., h. cai, and v. r. kamat. 2016. integrating natural language processing and spatial reasoning for utility compliance checking. j. constr. eng. manage. 142 (12): 04016074. https://doi.org/10.1061 /(asce)co.1943-7862.0001199. liu, k., and n. el-gohary. 2017. ontology-based semi-supervised condi- tional random fields for automated information extraction from bridge inspection reports. autom. constr. 81 (sep): 313327. https://doi.org /10.1016/j.autcon.2017.02.003. liu, k., and n. el-gohary. 2021. semantic neural network ensemble for automated dependency relation extraction from bridge inspection reports. j. comput. civ. eng. 35 (4): 04021007. https://doi.org/10 .1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000961. marzouk, m., and m. enaba. 2019. text analytics to analyze and monitor construction project contract and correspondence. autom. constr. 98 (feb): 265274. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2018.11.018. miyato, t., s.-i. maeda, m. koyama, and s. ishii. 2018. virtual adversa- training: a regularization method for supervised and semi- rial supervised learning. ieee trans. pattern anal. mach. intell. 41 (8): 19791993. https://doi.org/10.1109/tpami.2018.2858821. naganathan, h., w. o. chong, and x. chen. 2016. building energy mod- eling (bem) using clustering algorithms and semi-supervised machine learning approaches. autom. constr. 72 (dec): 187194. https://doi .org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.08.002. nawari, n. o. 2019. a generalized adaptive framework (gaf) for auto- mating code compliance checking. buildings 9 (4): 86. https://doi.org /10.3390/buildings9040086. pan, y., and l. zhang. 2020. bim log mining: learning and predicting design commands. autom. constr. 112 (apr): 103107. https://doi.org /10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103107. pennington, j., r. socher, and c. d. manning. 2014. glove: global vectors for word representation. in proc., 2014 conf. on empirical methods in natural language processing (emnlp), 15321543. stroudsburg, pa: association for computational linguistics. https://doi .org/10.3115/v1/d14-1162. pestian, j. p., l. deleger, g. k. savova, j. w. dexheimer, and i. solti. 2012. natural language processingthe basics. in pediatric biomedical informatics, 149172. dordrecht, netherlands: springer.  asce 04022022-13 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. preidel, c., and a. borrmann. 2016. towards code compliance checking on the basis of a visual programming language. j. inf. technol. construct. 25: 402421. ratner, a., s. h. bach, h. ehrenberg, j. fries, s. wu, and c. r. 2020. snorkel: rapid training data creation with weak supervision. vldb j. 29 (2): 709730. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00778-019-00552-1. ravikumar, k. e., m. rastegar-mojarad, and h. liu. 2017. belminer: adapting a rule-based relation extraction system to extract biological expression language statements from bio-medical literature evidence sen- tences. database 2017 (1): baw156. https://doi.org/10.1093/database /baw156. sacks, r., m. girolami, and i. brilakis. 2020. building information mod- elling, artificial intelligence and construction tech. dev. built environ. 4 (nov): 100011. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dibe.2020.100011. sohn, k., d. berthelot, c.-l. li, z. zhang, n. carlini, e. d. cubuk, a. kurakin, h. zhang, and c. raffel. 2020. fixmatch: simplifying semi-supervised learning with consistency and confidence. preprint, submitted january 21, 2020. https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.07685. solihin, w., j. dimyadi, y. c. lee, c. eastman, and r. amor. 2020. sim- plified schema queries for supporting bim-based rule-checking appli- cations. autom. constr. 117 (sep): 103248. https://doi.org/10.1016/j .autcon.2020.103248. solihin, w., and c. eastman. 2015. classification of rules for automated bim rule checking development. autom. constr. 53 (may): 6982. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2015.03.003. solihin, w., and c. m. eastman. 2016. a knowledge representation ap- proach in bim rule requirement analysis using the conceptual graph. j. inf. technol. construct. 21: 370401. sutskever, i., o. vinyals, and q. v. le. 2014. sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. in advances in neural information processing systems, 31043112. cambridge, ma: mit press. sydora, c., and e. stroulia. 2020. rule-based compliance checking and generative design for building interiors using bim. autom. constr. 120 (dec): 103368. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103368. wang, h., m. chen, h. zhang, and d. roth. 2020. joint constrained learn- ing for event-event relation extraction. preprint, submitted october 13, 2020. https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.06727. xu, x., and h. cai. 2020. semantic approach to compliance checking of underground utilities. autom. constr. 109 (jan): 103006. https://doi .org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.103006. xue, x., and j. zhang. 2020. building codes part-of-speech tagging rules. performance improvement by error-driven transformational j. comput. civ. eng. 34 (5): 04020035. https://doi.org/10.1061 /(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000917. yang, k., c. r. ahn, m. c. vuran, and s. s. aria. 2016. semi-supervised near-miss fall detection for ironworkers with a wearable inertial meas- urement unit. autom. constr. 68 (aug): 194202. https://doi.org/10 .1016/j.autcon.2016.04.007. ye, z.-x., and z.-h. ling. 2019. distant supervision relation extraction with intra-bag and inter-bag attentions. preprint, submitted march 30, 2019. https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00143. yurchyshyna, a., and a. zarli. 2009. an ontology-based approach for for- malisation and semantic organisation of conformance requirements in construction. autom. constr. 18 (8): 10841098. https://doi.org/10 .1016/j.autcon.2009.07.008. zhai, c. x., and s. massung. 2016. text data management and analysis: introduction to information retrieval and text mining. a practical new york: acm. zhang, j., and n. m. el-gohary. 2013. semantic nlp-based information extraction from construction regulatory documents for automated com- pliance checking. j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (2): 04015014. https://doi .org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000346. zhang, j., and n. m. el-gohary. 2015. automated information transfor- mation for automated regulatory compliance checking in construction. j. comput. civ. eng. 29 (4): b4015001. https://doi.org/10.1061 /(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000427. zhang, r., and n. el-gohary. 2020. a deep-learning method for evaluat- ing semantically-rich building code annotations. in proc., eg-ice 2020 workshop. berlin: universitatsverlag der tu berlin. zhang, r., and n. el-gohary. 2021a. clustering-based approach for build- ing code computability analysis. j. comput. civ. eng. 35 (6): 04021021. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000967. zhang, r., and n. el-gohary. 2021b. a deep neural network-based method for deep information extraction using transfer learning strate- gies to support automated compliance checking. autom. constr. 132 (dec): 103834. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103834. zhou, p., and n. el-gohary. 2017. ontology-based automated information extraction from building energy conservation codes. autom. constr. 74 (feb): 103117. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.09.004.  asce 04022022-14 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022022 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved.

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page1_img1.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page1_img2.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page1_img3.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page2_img1.jpeg
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page4_img1.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page5_img1.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page5_img2.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page5_img3.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page6_img1.jpeg
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page7_img1.png
R. Zhang et al. 2022_page8_img1.png

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page1_img3.png --- check for updates --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page2_img1.jpeg --- example 1 simple building-code sentence without the minimum clear opening height of doors shall be not less than 2032 mm restrictions or exceptions example 2 hierarchically complex openings into the access rooms shall be protected by opening protectives having a fire protection building-cod t ith se eee ses wn rating of not less than 0.75 hour restrictions the area of a group a-4 building not more than one story above grade plane of other than type v construction, orthe area of a group buajmors building no more than one story above grade example 3 hierarchically complex a building-code sentence with plane of any construction type, shall not be limited where the building is provided with an multiple restrictions and exceptions automatic sprinkler system throughout in accordance with section 903.3.1.1andis surrounded andladjoined by public ways lor yards not less than 18288 mm in width exceptions restrictions indicator of conjunctions or alternatives --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page4_img1.png --- building-code requirement openings into the access rooms shall be protected by opening protectives having a fire protection rating of not less than 0.75 hour. international building code 2018 requirement hierarchy requirement unit 1 requirement unit 2 requirement unit 3 subj ect1a openings ss subject 2a openings subject opening protectives subject relation protected by rd subject relation into compliance checking attribute subject 1b opening protectives subject 2b access rooms fire protection rating quantity value 0.75 quantity unit hour rd rdrestriction dependency between two requirement units --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page5_img1.png --- regulatory eee 405.8 handrails. ramp runs with a rise greater than 6 inches shall have handrails document --. complying with 505. exception within employee work areas, handrails shall oi not be required where ramps that are part of common use circulation paths are designed to permit the installation of handrails ... preprocessing e.g., 405.9 edge protection. edge protection complying with 405.9.1 or 405.9.2 shall sentence segmentation 1 be provided on each side of ramp runs ... and tokenization y a preprocessed fect ramp, runs, with, a, rise, greater, than, 6, inches, shall, have, sentence handrails, complying, with, 505 trained semantic relation semantic relation extraction model extraction sentence with fe onto os nn oo semantic relations ramp runs with a rise greater than 6 inches shall have handrails complying with 505 rootw el algorithm for convertin . rr ne semantic relation- sentences with semantic pee eee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee . . based requirement s, relations to requirement hi h . v hierarchies lcrarchy construction i requirement unit 1 requirement unit 2 requirement unit 3 lieu yaa 1 rd . . . pa subject 1a ramp runs subject ramp runs subject handrails requirement , subject relation have compliance checking reference 505 hierarchies subject 1b handrails attribute rise an ieee ene comparative relation deontic operator . 1 gage quantity value 6 indicator shall . a quantity unit inches rd . rdrestriction dependency between two requirement units a --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page5_img2.png --- openings into the access rooms shall be protected by opening protectives having a fire protection rating of not less than 0.75 hour inter requirement unit semantic relation inner requirement unit semantic relation --- inner information element semantic relation --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page5_img3.png --- step 1 data preparation step 3 model training step 4 semantic relation- using semi-supervised based requirement step 5 evaluation step 2 semantic relation learning strategy hierarchy construction extraction model development --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page6_img1.jpeg --- ir ir ir it ir in output utput layer , , ld j lj lj bidirectional lstm layer 2 toes er th bidirectional lstm layer le kline inl hf cli cles me dropout layer cnniantinannnninnaned lll ll semantic relation input layer lstm-learned representation l c pa ai o word embedding itinter requirement unit relation irinner requirement unit relation ininner information element relation lstmlong short-term memories --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page7_img1.png --- predicted semantic relations labeled input and encoding output layer for 1 supervised training data layers original sentences i objective function t t expert-annotated predicted output layer for semantic relations a original sentences probability nt distribution 1 unsupervised unlabeled input and encoding 1 objective function training data layers predicted t output layer for semantic relations modified sentences probability t distribution ttrainable ntnon-trainable b --- text from r. zhang et al. 2022_page8_img1.png --- initiate the current syntactic or semantic information element with the current head word untraversed tail words linked to add the tail word with the smallest . position index to the current syntactic the current head word by an inner . . or semantic information element and information element semantic . . mark this tail word as traversed relation no add the current syntactic or semantic information element to the requirement unit at the end of the unfinished requirement unit list initiate a new empty requirement unit at the end of the unfinished requirement unit list untraversed tail words linked to yes traverse the tail word with the the current head word by an inter smallest position index and requirement unit semantic mark this tail word as traversed relation no move the last requirement unit from the unfinished requirement unit list to the finished requirement unit list untraversed tail words linked to yes traverse the tail word with the the current head word by an inner smallest position index and requirement unit semantic mark this tail word as traversed relation no
