==== TEXT ====
fire technology, 61, 15791611, 2025  2024 the author(s), under exclusive licence to springer science+business media, llc, part of springer nature manufactured in the united states https://doi.org/10.1007/s10694-024-01655-0 semantic enrichment of a bim model using revit: automatic annotation of doors in high-rise residential building models using machine learning soheila bigdeli*, research group combustion, department of structural engineering and building materials, ghent university, ghent, belgium pieter pauwels, department of the built environment, tu eindhoven, eindhoven, the netherlands steven verstockt, idlab, ghent university - imec, ghent, belgium nico van de weghe, department of geography, ghent university, ghent, belgium bart merci, research group combustion, department of structural engineering and building materials, ghent university, ghent, belgium received: 14 february 2024/accepted: 20 september 2024/published online: 8 october 2024 abstract. this study explores the potential of automated re safety conformity checks using a bim tool. the focus is on travel distance regulations, one of the major concerns in building design. checking travel distances requires information about the location of exits. preferably, the building information model (bim) of the building should contain such information, and if not, user input can be requested. however, a faster, yet still reliable and accurate, methodology is strived for. there- fore, this study presents an automated solution that uses machine learning to add the required semantics to the building model. three algorithms (bagged knn, svm, and xgboost) are evaluated at a low level of detail (lod) bim models. with preci- sion, recall, and f1 scores ranging from 0.87 to 0.90, the model exhibits reliable per- formance in the classication of doors. in a validation process with two separate sample buildings, the models accurately identied all exits in the rst building with 94 samples, with only 5 to 6 minor misclassications. in the second building, all models- with the exception of the svm - correctly classied every door. despite their theoretical promise, oversampling techniques do not enhance the results, indicating their inherent limitations. keywords: building information model, semantic enrichment, automated code compliance checker, machine learning, fire safety codes * correspondence should be addressed to: soheila bigdeli, e-mail: soheila.bigdeli@ugent.be these authors contributed equally to this work. 1 1580 1. introduction fire technology 2025 building codes and regulations specify various rules that focus primarily on the health and safety of occupants [1]. verifying that a building meets all of these rules is a tedious, error-prone and time consuming task that requires considerable human eort [2]. a collaborative research eort between business and economic research limited (berl), the building research association of new zealand (branz), and price waterhouse coopers (pwc) found that a 10% improvement in eciency within the construction sector could lead to a notable 1% impact on the overall gross domestic product (gdp) [3]. the results of a survey conducted in the u.s. show that on a typical project, approximately 200 hours are spent by architects, engineers, contractors and owners on building code compliance reviews [4]. although automation of building code compliance verication long predates the advent of building information modeling (bim) technologies [5], the ability to automate the code compliance check process has become more prominent, with the opportunities provided by bim. in an eort to reduce the amount of work required while maintaining (or even improving) the quality of checks, many researchers [69] have sought to leverage the power of bim to automate and com- puterize this process. bim models often contain some but not all of the specic data required by local regulations [10]. following any potential design alteration, the user must allocate time during each iteration of the design review process to re-enter missing data or rectify erroneous data. most commercially available automated code compliance checkers (accs), such as solibri model checker (smc) [11] or smar- treview [12], require the user to manually supplement the data needed to check a specic rule [13, 14]. automating this process helps to reduce repetitive work and human error[15]. semantic enrichment (se) is a promising solution for preparing model data to provide or correct the information required by regulations [16]. se is a (semi-)automatic process of adding domain- or application-specic informa- tion to the building model and has received much attention in the last decade [1720]. simeone et al., [21] enriched the heritage bim models with non-geometric data using semantic web technologies. fornax as an external library platform, developed and maintained by novacitynets pte. ltd. singapore, contains building objects enriched with high-level semantics required by code compliance checkers, but the provided attributes are limited [14]. in [22], cha teauvieux et al. used domain-specic rule sets to add semantics needed for the noise and vibration analysis of timber models, such as the type of element in the junction. recent [23], with an extensive study on the number of scientic papers on research, semantic enrichment of bim models in the aec industry, shows that the number of researches is still not very high and that the topic still lacks a formal deni- tion of the process, possible applications, contributions and computational approaches. this study aims to address these gaps by proposing a simplied computational approach using basic machine learning techniques. a potential application of the enriched model is demonstrated in automatic evacuation route rule checks. semantic enrichment of a bim... 1581 while information is at the heart of bim, many data remain implicit within the models. many studies have focused on rule inferencing (ri) for semantic enrich- ment of bim models (e.g., [17, 18, 24], and [25]). however, especially with the recent innovative and complex building designs, not everything can be translated into explicit rules. with the capability to handle uncertainties and exceptions [26], articial intelligence (ai) and machine learning (ml) techniques seem to be well-positioned to uncover the hidden insights within bim models. even though ai and ml are expanding across many sectors, their adoption in the construction industry has been slow [27]. however, recent successful studies underscore a promising research trajectory, particularly in the semantic enrichment of bim models. in their research, jin et al. [28] introduced an unsupervised learning method to analyze ifc-based bim data, focusing on the relationships between building spaces. by extracting bim data properties and using an adapted anity propaga- tion algorithm, their approach eectively identied standard space functions using a dataset of a 20-story building with 595 spaces. calzado et al. [29] delved into the automatic labeling of rooms in housing units based on geometry using ml algorithms, a traditionally manual task in bim. based on two autodesk revit models, each with more than 200 units, they used three methods: decision trees, logistic regression, and neural networks. to perform a sensitivity study, they extracted data both directly and via the revit application programming interface (api). with this enriched dataset, both logistic regression and neural networks achieved an accuracy of 80%-90%. koo et.al. [30] used 3d geometric deep neural networks, specically mvcnn24 and pointnet25, to classify building informa- tion modeling (bim) elements, with a focus on door and wall subtypes. using a 7:3 training-to-testing data ratio, mvcnn outperformed with accuracies of 92% for doors and 95% for walls, whereas pointnet faced challenges due to resolution issues from selective point cloud use. additionally, when classifying road infras- tructure bim elements, mvcnn again proved superior with a 98% accuracy compared to pointnets 83%. using a graph convolutional network (gcn), collins et al.[31] achieved up to 85% accuracy when categorizing bim objects from a dataset of 22 ifc les,containing a variety of structural elements, equip- ment, and interior furnishings. kim et al. [32] employ a multi-view method, inte- grated into an autodesk revit plugin, to train a convolutional neural network (cnn) on 2d images of objects from 32 angles, encompassing 820 objects across ten classes. they explore a two-step classication, initially sorting objects into broader categories before sub-classifying certain groups. in a very recent study, lou et al. [33] addressed the interoperability challenges within building informa- tion modeling (bim) by proposing a two-branch geometric-relational deep learn- ing framework. this approach integrated both geometric and relational data, enhancing bim object classication capabilities. such a method not only aug- mented the semantic richness of bim objects but also promised to mitigate the long-standing challenge of manual model checks, thereby elevating the practical utility of enriched bim models. the implementation of ml approaches for semantic enrichment of bim models oers the advantage of a low level of detail (lod) required for automated design 1582 fire technology 2025 checks. this is attributed to the capability of ml to infer and extract relevant data from the existing model, alleviating the need for extensive eort spent on model development. given that early stages of design phases often operate with a relatively low lod in models, a method capable of eciently identifying essential architectural features presents signicant value. this underpins the rationale of the present study, which seeks to assess the viability of an approach geared towards automatic annotation of elements within high-rise building models. most of the aforementioned studies use complex deep learning models that learn mainly from the shape of bim objects, some of which entail extensive pre- processing and considerable computational overhead, making them unsuitable for many real-world applications [34]. in contrast, we use ml techniques, such as knn and xgboost, which are signicantly faster and more ecient. by prioritiz- ing low-level geometric attributes and deliberately excluding shape features, our methodology remains resilient even when the geometric representation in bim may be imprecise or incomplete with low lod. the core this study is part of a larger eort that focuses on the automation of rules related to evacuation routes. compliance to these rules play an important role in getting building permit and ensuring occupant safety. a crucial piece of information for this automation was the identication of exits on each oor, which was missing. therefore, this study investigated the automatic addition of this information to the bim model. to achieve this the current study presents a novel workow that integrates simple geometrical features to train a machine learning model to do this. while the individual components of our approach are not new, their innovative combination within this workow represents a signi- cant advancement. this methodology not only demonstrates high performance and computational eciency but also facilitates the enrichment of bim models with low lod. to realize the primary goal of current paper-a proof of concept for employing ml techniques in the automated annotation of bim models with low lod, several objectives are addressed. first of all, a comparative analysis of dierent ml techniques is undertaken to automatically annotate exits on bim models of buildings. exits refer to the doors that allow leaving the oor towards emergency staircases. given an imbalanced dataset, dierent oversampling tech- niques are tested and evaluated. the importance of proper implementation when combining cross validation with oversampling is subsequently underscored. finally, the outcomes of the automated approach are subsequently bench-marked against manual human-based annotations. the remainder of the paper is structured as follows. section 2 rst gives an overview of the general methodology used to develop the automated code compli- ance checker. then an overview of the dataset and its preparation is given. later, the selected ml models and their hyperparameters are described in detail, and nally the oversampling techniques we used are explained. subsequently, section 3 delves into a detailed discussion of the obtained results. following that, section 4 extends the discussion by exploring considerations beyond our methodology implementation, shedding light on unaddressed aspects that could impact the results. finally, section 5 presents the conclusions. semantic enrichment of a bim... 1583 2. methodology this research is part of a study focused on leveraging eastmans four-step process [2] to automate rules related to the evacuation route in belgiums national re safety codes. the focus of the current work is on the normalization or prepara- tion of the building model data stage, the second step from the eastmans pro- posed process, fig. 3, however, it is also important to briey explain the other steps as they have a signicant impact on what needs to be enriched. therefore, a brief overview of the main tasks of each step is given rst in section 2.1. as build- ing construction is a step-by-step process, more information is added to the model as the project progresses. typically, designers and engineers model the building collaboratively, using dierent software to produce models with multiple aspects or disciplines. these models are then merged into a coordination model, often using a common data environment (cde). before and during this process, it is crucial to set exchange requirements and to specify the information needed to be included and exchanged according to the iso 19650 standard. however, it is often the case that there are no exchange requirements or other agreements made, which means that the required information is not modeled and therefore not available. as re safety engineers are not normally involved in the bim process, this becomes even more problematic for the information they require. for this reason, current bim models usually lack the necessary data (spatial, topological, geometric, graphical, and nongraphical) for evacuation route rules to check com- pliance with building regulations. although user input could be queried to add the data, this study aims to propose an automated technique to enrich models with this information, more specically the exits. fig. 1 illustrates the general proposed process of model preparation for rule execution. as shown in the gure, module 1 accesses the object-oriented bim model (which is the architectural model here) to extract information and identify structures and relationships between building objects based on regulation con- cepts, such as exits or boundaries of a re compartment, and retrieves the proper- ties, such as geometry data or re rating, to prepare a dataset for rule execution. if the required data are not found in the model, the data can be provided by engi- neers or prompting a query for user input. although these remain the preferred approaches, alternatives such as deriving data from available data, as formalized by [2], or automated se techniques (module 2) can be used to add them to the model. as asking for user input means extra cost and eort, the current study chooses the second option (module 2), in this case, ml techniques, to nd the missing information in an automated manner. after preparing the data set for the execution of the rules, the transformer module (module 3) is responsible for developing the enriched bim model by reconnecting to the bim model and add- ing new classication attributes to the original bim model. the autodesk revit tool was chosen for this study because it is one of the most widely used tools among designers and architects. the information associated with each building element is retrieved via the revit api. this is done in module 1 (see fig.1). using the capabilities of the revit api, a plug-in is developed in the c# language in the .net framework (version 4.7.2). c# is an object-oriented pro- 1584 fire technology 2025 figure 1. general overview of the data enrichment process. gramming language created by microsoft that operates on the .net framework. the .net framework is a comprehensive development platform for building and executing applications on windows. being a strong typed language, c# is a logi- cal choice for developers, particularly when creating plugins for revit. for the rules in table 1, the apartments and exits need to be dened. while exit information is usually missing, apartment units can be identied using the area drop-down menu (area plan) on the architecture tab, room & area. fig. 2 shows some examples of emergency staircases and exits in a oor plan of existing high-rise buildings in belgium. the pattern in most high-rise buildings is quite similar (exits are the two doors (depicted with dotted purple lines in fig. 2) con- necting an air-lock space to the stairwell), so machines could be trained to pro- duce human-like recognition and responses. a supervised ml approach is employed, necessitating the use of training and validation samples. five distinct features are dened for each door within the dataset. these features include the width of the door, the euclidean distance to the adjacent door, the euclidean distance to the nearest staircase, the travel dis- tance to the adjacent door, and the travel distance to the nearest staircase. the training and validating data is extracted from [35], which includes data from ve high-rise buildings containing total of 2521 doors. the following section provides an overview of the dataset preparation process and details the selection, congura- tion, and evaluation of the chosen machine learning models. given the selection of revit as the bim tool utilized in this study, the following section provides a comprehensive explanation of the data preparation using the revit api. however, semantic enrichment of a bim... 1585 table 1 selected belgian fire safety code clauses for evacuation route analysis clause exact text simplied text element parameter annex 4/ 4.4.4.1: no point of a compartment shall be at a dis- tance greater than: for rooms or groups of rooms used at night time: _ 30 m from access to the near- est stairs or exit. _ 60 m from access to the second staircase or the second exit. no point of the re compart- ment in a residential building shall be further than: - area -door (exit or none) - stair - wall - room - level - geometrical data _ 30 m between the furthest point of the furthest apartment to the nearest staircase or the nearest exit. _ 60 m between the furthest point of the furthest apartment to the second staircase or the second exit. figure 2. examples of exits and stairs in high-rise building plans in belgium. 1586 fire technology 2025 the features described in section 2.2 can be extracted from any other object-ori- ented bim tool capable of providing geometric information or ifc les. 2.1. eastman four step process i.e., the main components of the rule checking process were introduced by eastman [2] in four general phases, shown in fig. 3. it begins by focusing on the content of the building code and how to convert this into formats that are understandable translation of the rules to a machine-readable lan- for the computer, guage. the next step is to investigate whether the model can provide the required information, and if not, what techniques need to be implemented to add data to or retrieve data from the building model data, i.e., preparation of the building model data. the third step is rule execution, where the rules are applied using the prepared building model data, i.e., execution of rules. the last phase is reporting the outcome of the design check, reporting of the checking results. i.e. step 1: translation of the rules into a machine-readable language the belgian fire safety code for high rise buildings has been thoroughly analyzed in terms of evacuation route requirements and the relevant codiable clauses investigated in this study and are parameterized to identify the important elements from the bim model and the required corresponding properties. building code parametrization, also known as code-bim matching [36], is a challenging task with existing semi- automatic approaches [37] being dicult to generalize and not scalable. previous attempts using ml algorithms achieved about 76% accuracy , [36], but failed to extract the necessary element properties. to achieve near-perfect matching, man- ual parameterization is utilized in the current study. table 1 summarizes the selected rules for automation in this study. the table re- ects the numbering and wording of the regulations, with a simplied text speci- cally tailored for residential buildings, together with the corresponding required building elements and properties obtained by manual parameterization. solihin and eastman [38] addressed the complexities inherent in rules by classi- fying rules into four main categories based on the complexity of the data process- ing required to evaluate them. (1) rules that require a single or small number of explicit data (which involves direct comparisons or validations checking explicit attributes or entity references within the bim dataset), (2) rules that require sim- ple derived attribute values, (which involves some basic processing to derive new values from exiting data), (3) rules that require extended data structure (which refer to rules that require complex geometric or spatial analysis, requiring the con- struction of additional relationships or networks to accurately evaluate compli- ance.) and (4) rules that require a proof of solution (which are the most complex category, require a performance-based analysis, often involving simula- tions or advanced calculations to demonstrate that the design meets the specied criteria.) according to this classication, the rules coded in the current study, see table 1, can be categorised into class 2. the required data are not explicit in the bim models but can be derived through additional coding; i.e., identifying the compartments furthest points and calculating travel distances towards the exits. semantic enrichment of a bim... 1587 figure 3. eastmans four steps for developing an automated code compliance checker [2]. given the geometric layout of most buildings, it is logical to consider corner points as the possible candidates for furthest points within a compartment, as cor- ners are the points where walls intersect, creating the geometry boundaries. calcu- lating the travel distances from these points to the exits, though complex, is feasible using tools available within the bim software, such as revit. addition- ally, it is necessary to identify which doors function as exits. although accessing this information might seem straightforward through user input, this study, aim- ing to automate as much as possible and reduce user work, proposes a novel solu- tion to automatically add this data to the bim model. step 2: preparation of the building model data in this step, which forms the core of the present work, the building model is prepared for the execution of the rules. regardless of the classication of the rule - whether it belongs to class 1, class 2, class 3 or class 4- all necessary informa- tion must be available and accessible during the execution of the rule check in order to ensure an accurate evaluation. while corner points and travel distances, including their lengths, can be derived from the bim model dataset through cod- ing, automating the extraction of exits information solely through coding, with- out the need for user input, remains particularly challenging, if not impossible. this study proposes to use a machine learning application to enrich the bim model with this missing data. step 3: execution of rules the third step in the development of accs is the implementation of rules. the rules are converted into if-then-else logic and coded using the c# programming language. the pseudo-code for in table 1 are shown in sec- the rules tion appendix a. to nd the non-complaint parts of the building, a c# code was developed to use data from revit model to rst nd all possible corners of apart- 1588 fire technology 2025 ments in the model, and then check travel distances from all of these points towards exits to nd the ones exceeding the requirements. step 4: rule reporting this part is not a focus point in our research and article. in our case, we use a simple highlighting mechanism that shows in the model which elements are non- compliant. reporting is also implemented in the form of an exported csv le. 2.2. preparation of dataset for ml due to the absence of pre-existing datasets meeting the criteria required for the research objectives outlined, a dataset as introduced in [35], was used which com- prises 2521 door samples collected from ve high-rise residential building models. to safeguard against potential data leakage during model evaluation, a delin- eation was established: three of these buildings-comprising 27, 11, and 11 oors- were designated exclusively for training. notably, while high-rise designs typically involve repetitive oor layouts, meticulous alterations were integrated into these congurations. modications included the strategic repositioning of doors, stairs, certain walls, etc., which maintained the architectural integrity of the original designs, but also ensured a dataset devoid of redundancy. for the purpose of model validation, a separate subset of 134 samples was aggregated from two indi- vidual oors across the remaining two buildings. in high-rise buildings, exits are often situated near each other and close to the emergency staircase. in addition, these exit doors tend to be wider, not always, than other doors. based on these observations, an initiative was undertaken to dene new features from the least data available in bim models (i.e., geometrical data from doors and stairs) for the development of a robust dataset for machine learning. these features are: euclidean distance to the nearest door (feature 1), euclidean distance to the nearest staircase (feature 2), travel distance to the nearest door (feature 3), travel distance to the nearest staircase (feature 4), and the doors width (feature 5). the following describes how these features are extracted for each door using the revit api. although the details of the extrac- tion are specic to revit, it is important to note that the core methodology and features are not specic to any particular software. users need to customise the data extraction process to the entities and data structures relevant to ifc les or other bim tools they use. to nd these features, doors and stairs must be found on each oor of the building using the revit api. the rst step is to lter the levels of the building and then nd the doors and stairs on each level. the building levels are rst found by ltering the viewplans by floorplan view type and then reading the built-in level parameter for each floorplan view. doors and stairs are ltered based on the associated built-in category and the elementlevelfilter condition. for the distance features, it was essential to ascertain the precise locations of both doors and staircases within the model. it should be noted that when working with architectural models, where architects apply their own style to the design of the building model, one of the biggest challenges can be retrieving data from the revit model, i.e., it is possible that a door family has been designed so that the semantic enrichment of a bim... 1589 location point is in a dierent place than the door itself. in the case of the door families in the current study models, the location points were located in the mid- dle of the door. for in-place families that do not have a single insertion point, the transform class was called from the geometry namespace and the origin property of the transform was used as the door point. stairs are sometimes impor- ted as a lumped family. as a result, they are not categorized as a staircase object to lter with the revit api. many other modeling practices can lead to poor data, such as importing geometry as plain geometric generic models. this is an impor- tant practical issue that needs to be considered at the source, as any data export retains poor data modeling quality. in our study, all stairs were imported or cre- ated in such a way that they could be ltered with the built-in category ost- stairs. to achieve a relative consistency across staircases from dierent models with dierent shapes and orientations, the location of each staircase is pinpointed at the midpoint between its bounding box minimum and maximum extents. to calculate the euclidean distances, direct horizontal distances between ele- ments were calculated. on the other hand, the travel distances were determined using the pathoftravel feature of the revit api. this feature provides the capa- bility to designate which elements on the path of travel are treated as obstacles. in this study, aside from doors, all other categories such as furniture, ducts, walls, and the like were considered. design considerations often determine how a doors width is parameterized in architectural modeling, either as an instance or as a type. with this in mind, our research explored both congurations. for the purposes of this research, both parameters were investigated. the instance param- eter was extracted directly from the door element using builtinparameter. door_width, while the type parameter was sourced using builtinparameter. family_width_param via the doors elementtype. to build the labeled dataset, a project parameter named door type which is a yesno parameter was dened for each door element. the parameter was then manually set for exit doors within the revit model. this information, along with other features, was extracted using a plug-in developed in the c# language in the . net framework (version 4.7.2). given that the number of exits in the building models is limited compared to other door types, we are presented with an imbalanced dataset. before applying the ml algorithm, the training and test samples must be pre- processed. feature scaling is an important step in this process. dierent features with dierent ranges can cause large-scale features to dominate small ones, leading to results that are biased toward the features with the higher magnitude. when data are scaled to an approximately equal range, the computational cost is reduced due to the fast convergence of gradient descent [39, 40]. a preliminary evaluation showed that standardization scaling, performed on the data of each building individually, results in better performance compared to normalization scaling. 1590 fire technology 2025 2.3. choice of ml techniques the current study demonstrates to what extent the use of some of the most well- known and widely used supervised learning models, namely bagged k-nearest neighbors (knn), support vector machine (svm) and extreme gradient boost- ing (xgboost) can automatically locate exits in high-rise building models, by clas- sifying building doors as exits or non-exits. the knn technique was chosen for its simplicity and eectiveness in classication problems. moreover, it seems to favor our unbalanced data because it does not remove low-frequency events to simplify the model [41] and it was improved by the bagging technique. bagging as an ensemble learning method is used to improve the stability and accuracy of ml techniques. it generates many datasets from the original training dataset by boot- strap sampling [42], where a base learner, i.e. knn in our study, is developed in parallel on each of these samples. if the results of the classier are labels, as in our case, plurality voting is performed at the end to predict a class. if the trained models dier, then the variance1 of the estimate improves by a factor of the num- ber of models generated, otherwise it behaves like the base learner. thus, it has no negative eect, i.e., it either improves the model or does not dier from using the base model [43]. svm was chosen for its exibility, robustness, strong generalization capabilities, and ability to consistently yield globally optimal solutions while preventing over- tting [44]. especially considering the non-linear nature of our dataset, svm is particularly well suited, as it implicitly maps the input data into a higher-dimen- sional feature space, oering the potential for enhanced predictive accuracy [45]. in handling our tabular dataset for binary classication, we chose xgboost. known for its adaptability and proven performance, xgboost leverages the power of decision trees via gradient boosting [46]. although neural networks are typically dominant in processing unstructured data such as text or images, for structured or tabular data sets-especially on a small to medium scale-algorithms such as xgboost stand out as the preferred choice [47]. 2.4. hyper-parameter tuning in ml, the development of a model includes more than just the selection of an appropriate algorithm. the true potential of an algorithm is unveiled through a meticulous process known as hyperparameter tuning. hyperparameters, distinct from the model parameters learned during training, are predened settings that govern the training process itself. they dictate crucial aspects such as the learning rate, the depth of trees in an ensemble, or the number of hidden layers in a neural network. determining the optimal hyperparameters is paramount, as their values directly inuence the models performance on unseen data. traditional methods of manually selecting hyperparameters often rely on intu- ition or domain knowledge, but such approaches are time-consuming and may not guarantee the best performance. automated techniques, such as grid search and 1 the variance is an error from sensitivity to small uctuations in the training set. high variance may result from an algorithm modeling the random noise in the training data (overtting). semantic enrichment of a bim... 1591 random search, oer systematic ways to explore hyperparameter space. when the data samples are divided into k folds (groups) of approximately the same size, it is called k-fold cv. each fold is treated as a validation dataset and the remaining data are used as the training dataset. the model is t to the training dataset each time and evaluated against the validation samples. the choice of k is important to ensure that both the training and validation samples are large enough to be statis- tically representative of the broader dataset. a special version of k-fold is strati- ed k-fold, where each fold contains the same proportion of each target class as the main dataset. therefore, the individual folds are well representative of the main dataset. in our study, we use 10 folds, because this value has been shown to give the best results for dierent techniques [4850]. due to the stochastic nature of the ml technique, the repeated stratied k-fold cv was used. it performs the cv multiple times (in our case 10 times) over all folds, as shown in fig. 4, and reports the average performance over all folds from all runs. the dataset used for cv must be dierent from that used for model validation, otherwise there will be data leakage where the model gets the information it is supposed to predict. this will lead to overoptimistic, incorrect, and unreliable performance. in the current study, we trained on three dierent architectural models using a dataset of 2383 samples. this dataset included 190 exit doors and the rest were labeled as normal door, indicating standard doors. for validation, we selected two additional high-rise buildings and tested the model on one oor of each. the rst building had 94 doors with 4 exit. the second building contained 44 doors with 4 exit. as the model trained at this stage learned from a smaller dataset used in the cv, it must be re-trained with the entire training set before the valida- tion test. then the validation set is used as unseen data to check how the model performs when deployed. table 2 presents the range of hyperparameters for the three machine learning models used, along with the best estimators (optimal hyperparameters) identied through repeated stratied k-fold cv. the models discussed throughout the rest of the paper are constructed using these optimal hyperparameters. 2.5. oversampling technique given that our dataset was imbalanced, a condition that could lead to biased, poor generalization or incorrect results, wide range of oversampling techniques were investigated. the smote-variants python library package, developed by [51], which provides the python implementations of the 85 improvements made to smote, is used to examine some of the methods proposed in the literature to tackle imbalanced and oversampling issues in our dataset. over 30 dierent over- sampling techniques were explored. many of these techniques, as presented in table 3, are modications of smote [52], which is among the most widely applied methods to address class imbalance in datasets. however, for clarity and brevity, only supervised smote is presented, as the results of alternative tech- niques did not demonstrate signicant distinctions or contribute substantially to the overall ndings. 1592 fire technology 2025 figure 4. illustration of repeated(10-times) k-fold cross validation. table 2 hyperparameter ranges and best parameters ml model hyperparameter range best estimator bagged knn xgboost svm #n_neighbors p weight max_samples max_features n_estimators learning_rate n_estimators max_depth subsample colsample_bytree gamma min_child_weight c kernel degree gamma 3 to 19 (step 2) [1, 2] [uniform, distant] [0.5, 1.0] [0.5, 1.0] [50, 100] [0.01, 0.05, 0.1] [50, 100, 200] [3, 4, 5] [0.8, 0.9, 1] [0.8, 0.9, 1] [0, 0.1, 0.2] [1, 2, 3] [0.1, 1, 10] [linear, rbf, poly, sigmoid] [2, 3, 4] [scale, auto] 5 1 distant 0.5 1.0 50 0.1 100 5 0.9 0.8 0 2 10 rbf 2 scale numerous studies have been conducted employing oversampling techniques before partitioning data into two separate and mutually exclusive sets dedicated to training and validation purposes [8287]. a critical consideration when using over- sampling techniques is to apply them accurately and exclusively to the training set, as failure to do so may lead to inated, biased, and overoptimistic results [88, 89]. even though some of the available python packages, such as scikit learn, allow easy implementation of cv, they do not allow implementation of oversam- pling during cv and only on the training set. therefore, a custom python code, developed by [35], was used to apply oversampling only on the training set in each round of cv. the importance of the above approach is illustrated by contrasting it with the prevailing practice of applying oversampling to the entire dataset,which semantic enrichment of a bim... 1593 table 3 applied oversampling techniques in this study technique reference technique reference smote adasyn borderline_smote1 nrsboundary_smote polynom_t_smote oups spy sso sundo supervised_smote ccr cluster_smote distance_smote edge_det_smote mdo [53] [55] [54] [58] [60] [62] [64] [66] [68] [70] [72] [74] [76] [78] [80] borderline_smote2 prowsyn randomoversampler safe_level_smote smote_enn smote_rsb smote_tomeklinks sn_smote smote_ipf ln_smote smote_psobat symprod trim_smote vis_rst mwmote [54] [56] [57] [59] [61] [63] [65] [67] [69] [71] [73] [75] [77] [79] [81] is often adopted without the necessary depth of knowledge or understanding of python library packages. 2.6. evaluation metrics is commonly used in balanced datasets, when evaluating ml models, several metrics can be used to assess their perfor- mance. while accuracy, dened as the ratio of correct predictions to all predic- tions, it may not be appropriate for unbalanced problems like ours, where one class signicantly outweighs the other. in such cases, alternative measures such as the confusion matrix, precision, recall, f1 score and cross-entropy loss (known as log loss) become more meaningful and informative for evaluation purposes [90]. to better show the performance of our predictive model and its generalization, and to prevent overtting [91], as in the hyperparameter tuning section 2, the repeated stratied k-fold cv was applied. 3. results in this section, we thoroughly assess the performance of our methodology. this encompasses practical applications, the consequences of improper integration of cv and oversampling, the ecacy of oversampling techniques, and a direct com- parison between manual and automatic annotation of bim models. 3.1. illustration of correct and false identication of exits fig. 5 shows a correctly predicted exit on one of the oors, using the methodol- ogy proposed in section 2 with the bagged knn model applied, and illustrates 1594 fire technology 2025 figure 5. representation of the travel distances between apartment corners and exits. figure 6. plans; example of a misidentied exit. illustration of highlighted, non-complaint distances on how the distances from the corner points of the apartments to the exits are mea- sured to check the rules. green lines indicate that the distances are within allow- able limits, while red lines, as in fig. 6, mark distances that exceed the limits. fig. 6 also shows an incorrectly predicted exit (ex2). this could be avoided to some extent by adding additional constrains such as the presence of two exits per oor. however, this is not sucient and user intervention is still required. the semantic enrichment of a bim... 1595 nal user check remains necessary to ensure accurate labeling of exits. this pro- cess is expedited, as the tool conveniently highlights identied exits in green, allowing users to quickly identify them when reviewing building plans. in the event that doors are mislabeled, users can adjust the door type parameter parameter to rectify the labeling. the following sections explain how the ml can be eectively applied in our case to automatically identify the exits on building models. 3.2. emphasizing the proper fusion of cross validation and oversampling when using cv, it is important to correctly apply oversampling to the dataset. as described in [89], some researchers have incorrectly implemented the joint use of cv and oversampling: by applying oversampling to the entire dataset and then performing cv. this awed approach introduces the risk that the model learns patterns from the test set due to the presence of oversampled data distributed across both training and test sets. consequently, the models exhibit an exagger- ated level of optimism. in contrast, the recommended approach involves oversam- pling within each cv iteration. in our investigation, we conducted two tests to assess the impact: in the rst test (method 1), we oversampled the entire dataset using the smote algorithm and performed cv, while in the second test (method 2), we oversampled only the training dataset within each cv round and evaluated the model on unseen data. as pointed out by [89], our ndings support the presence of overoptimism in method 1. this observation is substantiated by table 4, which demonstrates a sig- nicantly higher model performance for method 1 compared to the validation results. although method 1 achieved a perfect prediction of exits, its validation performance was comparable to the lower-performing method 2. this discrepancy can be attributed to the fact that method 1 was exposed to portions of the data on which it was subsequently tested, resulting in inated performance metrics. the purpose of this particular section is not to show the improvement in classication performance, but to shed light on a common pitfall in implementing the joint use of cv and oversampling; accordingly, weve chosen to use only the basic smote algorithm in conjunction with the bagged knn model. it is crucial to clarify the concept of overoptimism in our study, as it diers from the denition presented in [89]. the aforementioned study characterizes overoptimism when the classication performance of the training and validation sets show similarity. this suggests that oversampling is applied to the entire data- set before it is divided into training and validation sets. however, in our study, overoptimism is dened as a scenario where the trained model demonstrates high performance while the validation test yields poor results. this occurs when the validation set is correctly separated but the oversampling is applied before cv on the whole training set. we argue that the most appropriate implementation of oversampling is not just before the separation of the training and validation sets, but also during each iteration of the k-fold cv. therefore, a portion of the data should rst be set aside for validation. subsequently, within each iteration of k- fold cv, oversampling should be exclusively applied to the training set. this 1596 fire technology 2025 table 4 comparative analysis of trained model performance for method 1 (oversampling before applying cv), and method 2 (oversampling during cv) and validation results in confusion matrix for both methods method 1 model perfor- mance validation per- formance method 2 model perfor- mance validation per- formance precision recall f1 score log loss 0.97 0.72 precision 0.75 0.71 1 1 recall 0.98 1 0.98 0.84 f1 score 0.85 0.83 0.15 0.27 log loss 0.25 0.41 methodology ensures the prevention of data leakage and mitigates the potential for overoptimistic results. an online repository provides access to a python-based code designed to apply oversampling exclusively to training datasets within cross- validation processes [35]. 3.3. application of ml techniques to annotate exits three distinct ml models were constructed for this study: bagged knn, svm, and xgboost. the hyperparameters previously described were employed to ensure optimal conguration of the models. the training data comprised observa- tions from three separate high-rise buildings, providing a diverse and robust data- set for the learning process. post-construction, the models were subsequently validated for their performance capabilities on two independent oors taken from two distinct buildings. this validation step allowed an assessment of the models generalization capabilities and ecacy in predicting real-world scenarios. the ensuing results oer a comprehensive view of each models performance metrics and their applicability in building annotations. table 5 shows that the precision, recall, and f1 scores of the bagged knn, svm, and xgboost models are notably high, predominantly ranging between 0.87-0.89, 0.88-0.90, and 0.88-0.89, respectively. the relatively high and consistent performance of the bagged knn, svm, and xgboost models can be attributed to several factors. first, the systematic hyperparameter optimization performed for each model, ensured that they operated under optimal congurations tailored to the dataset. second, the selected feature set appears to eectively capture the subtleties of the classication task, allowing dierent models to discern similar performance. the confusion matrices in table 5 further emphasize this prociency. of the 477 doors in the test case, only 9 were misclassied by all models. in the rst vali- semantic enrichment of a bim... 1597 table 5 evaluation of ml models: bagged knn, svm, and xgboost for exits annotation metrics confusion matrix precision recall f1 log loss nd ex bagged knn model validation 1 validation 2 svm model validation 1 validation 2 xgboost model validation 1 validation 2 0.87 (cid:1)0:02 0.44  1  0.87 (cid:1)0:03 0.44  1  0.89 (cid:1)0:01 0.40  1  0.9 (cid:1)0:03 1  1  0.89 (cid:1)0:03 1  0.75  0.88 (cid:1)0:03 1  1  0.89 (cid:1)0:02 0.61  1  0.88 (cid:1)0:02 0.61  0.86  0.89 (cid:1)0:02 0.57  1  0.058 (cid:1)0:002 0.149  0.029  0.056 (cid:1)0:005 0.080 _ 0.165  0.046 (cid:1)0:002 0.203 _ 0.021  nd ex nd ex nd ex nd ex nd ex nd ex nd ex nd ex nd ex 432 3 85 0 40 0 432 4 85 0 40 1 433 4 84 0 40 0 6 36 5 4 0 4 5 35 5 4 0 3 4 35 6 4 0 4 dation set, consisting of 94 samples, every exit was accurately identied, but 5 or 6 other samples were misclassied as exits. for the second validation set, all models except for the svm, correctly identied all doors. the svm model made one misclassication. most of the log loss values are below 0.1, indicating the con- dence of the models in their predictions, with occasional values slightly exceeding this threshold. 3.4. exploring oversampling techniques for data imbalance the problem of imbalanced data that exists in many real-world ml problems [92] has attracted great research interest and led to remarkable advances in the eld [51]. in our study, we focused on data-level techniques and specically used over- sampling. we found that undersampling led to worse results, possibly due to the loss of important data instances. therefore, we opted for oversampling to aug- ment the minority class and achieve a more balanced representation. upon examining the results of the ml models with and without oversampling, as presented in table 6, a few key dierences emerge. for the bagged knn, the application of oversampling reects a marginally diminished precision, recall, and f1 scores for the model, with a slight increase in log loss. the svm model shows comparable performance between the two conditions, although the over- sampled data shows slightly lower values in precision and f1 score, and a slightly higher log loss. for the xgboost model, the oversampled data display a minute 1598 fire technology 2025 table 6 evaluation of ml models with oversampled data: bagged knn, svm, and xgboost for exits annotation metrics confusion matrix precision recall f1 log loss nd ex bagged knn model validation 1 validation 2 svm model validation 1 validation 2 xgboost model validation 1 validation 2 0.78 (cid:1)0:06 0.44  0.62  0.76 (cid:1)0:06 0.44  0.75  0.87 (cid:1)0:04 0.44  1  0.98 (cid:1)0:02 1  1  0.97 (cid:1)0:03 1  0.75  0.92 (cid:1)0:03 1  1  0.86 (cid:1)0:03 0.62  0.8  0.84 (cid:1)0:04 0.61  0.75  0.89 (cid:1)0:05 0.62  1  0.19 (cid:1)0:11 0.86  0.073  0.071 (cid:1)0:022 0.18  0.409  0.056 (cid:1)0:07 0.27  0.0006  427 1 85 0 38 0 426 1 85 0 39 1 432 3 85 0 40 0 11 38 5 4 2 4 12 38 5 4 1 3 6 36 5 4 0 4 decrease in recall, but other metrics remain largely consistent. it is imperative to note that these results are among the most promising outcomes across the diverse range of oversampling techniques that we employed in our study. in fact, most of the oversampling methods we experimented with did not provide signicant improvement. assessing the complexity measures in these models is instrumental, as it provides a nuanced understanding of the underlying changes introduced by the oversampling technique, thus oering a more comprehensive and in-depth view of the eects of data manipulation. 3.5. automated vs. manual annotations: comparison to evaluate the practicality and eciency of the proposed method, a comparative analysis was performed between the manual inspection of evacuation routes and the automated method introduced in this study. manual evaluation involved two primary tasks: annotating the bim model and verifying the compliance of the building with the evacuation route requirements specied in table 1. the test was carried out on two oors of a simple high-rise building design, featuring eight exit doors, 132 normal doors, and 19 apartment units. a professional with revit expe- rience, familiar with all necessary steps, performed the task to ensure that no time was wasted learning or troubleshooting the process. semantic enrichment of a bim... 1599 as a necessary initial step for the manual check and because neither the current nor previous versions of revit provide a parameter to label doors as exit or normal door, a new project parameter called door type has to be added to the bim model. the annotation process involved sequentially opening each oor plan view, selecting only the doors identied as exits, and lling the checkbox next to the door type parameter. once all exit doors were annotated, this phase was complete. to ensure compliance with evacuation route regulations, the path of travel tool in revit was employed. available since revit 2020, in the analysis tab under the route analysis section, it enables users to measure travel distances between points while avoiding specied obstacles. to check the rules listed in table 1, the travel distances from the apartment corners to the exits were assessed. the person minimized the number of corners by visually identifying those that appeared to be the most distant and likely to exceed the requirements. each identied corner was then used as a starting point, and a path of travel line was drawn towards the exits. the default visual graphics in revit were overridden by applying a lter rule for the length of the travel lines, facilitating the visual identication of corners that exceeded the requirements. for the selected building, this manual process took approximately 31 minutes to complete for two oors. in more complex building designs or with less experienced designers, additional corners would need to be selected and more path-of-travel lines would need to be drawn, increasing the time required for each step. the same person then performed the automated design check using the tool developed in this study. this process also consisted of two steps: automatic label- ing of exits and automatic rule checking. the developed plugin adds a new rib- bon, named evacroutechecker, as shown in fig. 7, which contains two buttons. the annotate doors button automatically extracts data for the machine learning model, applies the model to classify doors as either exit or normal door and highlights identied exits in green. user can immediately see if any doors were labeled incorrectly and manually correct them if necessary. in this test case, the predictions were correct, which did not require user intervention, resulting in a labeling process that was 90% faster. given the high accuracy of the machine learning model, the probability of needing manual intervention is minimal. in the event that manual correction is necessary, it would be limited in scope and would not be applicable to every door. following the annotation of the doors, the check evac rules button was uti- lized to verify compliance with the evacuation rules. the entire process, which included both annotation and verication, was completed in 10 minutes with min- imal user intervention, required only post-annotation. this stands in stark con- trast to the manual process, which required constant user participation, thereby underscoring the signicant value of the tool, particularly for iterative design pro- cesses and for large and complex buildings. based on this test case, the tool facilitated the evacuation route rule-check pro- cess, making it more than three times faster. manual control was required for less than one minute, as accurate exit predictions required only visual inspection. con- 1600 fire technology 2025 figure 7. screenshot of the evacroutechecker plugin interface in revit. (note: the evacroutechecker ribbon in revit appears after the last default revit ribbon. however, due to space limitations, the gure has been manually cropped. the dots indicate the existence of additional ribbons between the analyse and evacroutechecker ribbons in revit). sequently, the tool reduced manual work from 31 minutes to approximately one to two minutes. 4. discussion this section explores aspects that were not directly addressed in our study in order to provide additional insights into the implications of our ndings. in addi- tion, the complexity measures associated with oversampling techniques are explored in depth and discussed to identify the reasons for the unexpected ine- ciency of oversampling in our study. 4.1. analyzing dataset complexity in oversampling assessment, data complexity measures are used to evaluate the diculty of a classication task based on the characteristics of the dataset. table 7 presents a comparison of complexity measures computed for the original dataset and the oversampled dataset generated through the application of super- vised-smote, as implemented in the problexity python library [93]. interestingly, the provided table claries the absence of overlap, as indicated by a volume of overlapping region (f2) [94] equal to zero in both the original and oversampled datasets. although initially suggested successful class imbalance mitigation through oversampling, evident in the entropy of class proportions (c1) [94] and imbalance ratio (c2) [94] reducing to zero, a closer examination unveils nuanced intricacies. the lower maximum fishers discriminant ratio (f1), [94], for the oversampled dataset suggests a reduced capability for separating class features. furthermore, ineciency in individual feature separation (f3) [94] is more pro- nounced in the data set oversampled. regarding neighborhood characteristics, the oversampled dataset demonstrates higher values in measures such as the fraction semantic enrichment of a bim... 1601 table 7 comparison of complexity measures between the oversampled dataset (using supervised-smote) and the original dataset complexity measure c1 oversampled dataset original dataset 0 0.566 c2 0 0.806 f1 0.251 0.650 f2 0 0 f3 0.594 0.265 n1 0.008 0.013 n2 0.355 0.819 of borderline points (n1) [94] and the ratio of intra-class to extra-class nearest neighbor distance (n2) [94], indicative of a more intricate neighborhood structure. in summary, the results suggest that the oversampled dataset using supervised smote has certain characteristics that make it more complex in terms of class separation, neighborhood structure compared to the original dataset. the original dataset seems to have a simpler structure in terms of linearity, neighborhood, and class distribution. 4.2. considerations beyond methodology implementation revit was chosen primarily due to its widespread popularity and adoption in the aec industries. this ensures that the end tool is immediately useful and accessi- ble to a large group who are already familiar with revits environment. it is essential to understand while the general methodology of the project, including the machine learning model, its hyperparameters, and the proposed features, remain unchanged, to apply the methodology using ifc les or other bim tools cus- tomization is required to the data extraction codes to align with the data structure and formats of the chosen bim tool. with our limited features and data set, the result is very promising. we believe that our methodology could be employed for fast annotation and would be well suited for use in automated code compliance checks by retrieving data from bim models without requiring additional user input. despite achieving success with ve key features, the study recognizes the need for additional discriminative features. future research will focus on advanced feature engineering to improve model per- formance and address the complexity of real-world buildings more comprehen- sively. the dataset, derived from ve high-rise residential buildings, raises questions about the generalization of the methodology. while the study acknowl- edges potential limitations, future research endeavors to diversify datasets, encom- passing more building types and construction standards to enhance generalization. acknowledging the ecacy of simpler models (bagged knn, svm, xgboost), our exploration may extend to more complex models, such as deep learning archi- tectures. this consideration aims to strike a balance between capturing nuanced patterns and managing computational eciency, oering potential avenues for improved model performance. while the comparison between automated and manual annotations was based on time eciency, future evaluations will incorporate a qualitative analysis. this 1602 fire technology 2025 involves engaging real users in the daily application of the tool, allowing for a hands-on examination of its performance. in addition, surveys will be conducted meticulously to collect insights into user experiences, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of how well automated annotations align with industry standards. all issues relating to non-compliance with re safety regulations should ideally be resolved before the construction phase begins. otherwise, any major change to the design model would lead to changes to other models or calculations, resulting in a signicant loss of time and increased costs. this means that architects are important users at an early stage of the process. as a plugin for revit, the tool enables iterative design review for architects at earlier stages, where resolving con- icts and non-conformities is less costly and easier. others can also benet; for example, authorities can speed up the conformity assessment of buildings. the current study is a proof-of-concept that lacks detailed practical implementation and integration. future work will explore strategies to seamlessly integrate the proposed solution into existing industry workows and software systems, span- ning the entire process from design to building approval, ensuring its practical applicability. it should be noted that there may be slightly dierent results when the algo- rithm is used by other users. there are several reasons for possible minor discrep- ancies, namely the use of dierent training datasets, the stochastic nature of the applied ml technique (bagged knn and xgboost), dierent platforms or devel- opment environments used to run the tool [95]. the task of automatically checking evacuation routes in bim models was cho- sen because of its critical importance in ensuring safety and compliance with regu- lations that are fundamental to building safety. while it could be argued that the manual annotation of exit doors as part of this automation is not an overwhelm- ingly complex task, its signicance is particularly evident in the iterative design process. additionally, having this tool enables re safety engineers, who are often not familiar with bim and its tools, to directly engage with original bim models. typically, these engineers receive 2d plans which may not include the latest updates or crucial design details. using bim tools, re safety engineers gain access to real-time project information, enabling seamless collaboration with stakeholders and ensuring accurate understanding of the design details crucial for safety compliance. moreover, it is important to recognize that this research serves as a proof of concept and that the methodology is general and adaptable. the developed tech- nique has signicant potential for application to other complex bim annotation tasks, such as identifying compartment walls, mapping evacuation routes, or detecting building exteriors. these applications are just a few examples of the broad applicability and need for semantic enrichment to automate and streamline compliance checks, reducing manual eort for designers, and ensuring the accu- racy in complex structures such as high-rise buildings. although this study focuses on the belgian case, the general ideas of using machine learning and extracting data and features from the bim model are exi- ble and adaptable. the machine learning models can be retrained with localized data to ensure compliance with specic national or regional regulations, accom- semantic enrichment of a bim... 1603 modate dierent design standards and ensure broader applicability of the method- ology. 5. conclusion the current study focused on automating the design check against the rules for evacuation routes. in order to apply the rules, the exits must be known. however, this information, which should be included in the building model, is usually miss- ing in bim models. this can be added to the model either by engineers or by prompting the user for input. however, in this paper we presented a new approach to automatically obtain this information automatically from other avail- able data by using ml techniques, using bagged knn, svm and xgboost clas- siers. the proof-of-concept was demonstrated by consistently obtaining precision, recall, and f1 scores ranging from 0.87 to 0.90 for all models. by adding extra semantics to the doors, whether a door is an exit or not, and using the path of travel tool in revit, verication of the given constraints on the paths was achieved. future work will involve feature selection as an important component in building predictive models, and it is expected that better results will be obtained if more features are added. future endeavors will also explore the extension of the application to annotate other elements within bim models. additionally, the study emphasized the correct implementation of oversampling techniques when applying cv to measure the performance of the model. inade- quate implementation will result in data leakage and overly optimistic results. our study draws attention to the limitations of commonly employed oversam- pling techniques to address imbalanced classication problems. our extensive eval- uation of numerous oversampling techniques their widespread use and past success, these techniques may not always deliver the desired improvements in classier performance. it is highlighted that class imbal- ance alone does not solely dictate classication performance. the inner structural intricacies of the dataset, including the presence of noisy or rare samples, border- line points, neighbourhood of instances, overlap of feature values, etc., can signi- cantly inuence the ecacy of oversampling techniques. these complexities emphasize the need for exploring alternative methods to address the challenges posed by intricate dataset characteristics in imbalanced scenarios. that despite suggests funding this work was (vlaio) [grant number hbc.2019.2623]; and jensen hughes company. supported by the flanders innovation & entrepreneurship 1604 appendix fire technology 2025 pseudo codes for evacuation route rules pseudo code for rules in table 1: no point of a compartment shall be at a dis- tance greater than 30 m from access to the nearest stairs or exit and 60 m from access to the second staircase or the second exit. semantic enrichment of a bim... 1605 pseudo code for transformer module references 1. arthur ec, john rh, pam p, casey cg, robert es (2008) codes and standards for the built environment. in: arthur, e.c., casey, c.g. (eds.) fire protection handbook, vol. 1, 20th edn., pp. 151. national fire protection association, quincy, mass 2. eastman c, lee j-m, jeong y-s, lee j-k (2009) automatic rulebased checking of build- ing designs. autom constr 18:10111033. 10.1016/j.autcon.2009.07.002 3. dimyadi j, amor r (2013) automated building code compliance checking - where is it at? 19th international cib world building congress, https://doi.org/10.13140/2.1.4920. 4161 4. norbert w. young jr, stephen a. jones hmb (2007) interoperability in the construc- report, mcgraw-hill construction report. technical tion industry, smartmarket research and analytics. www.construction.com 5. fenves js (1966) tabular decision logic for structural design. j struct div 92:473490. 10.1061/jsdeag.0001567 6. khemlani l (2021) corenet e-plancheck: singapores automated code checking system. last accessed 19, 02, 2021. http://www.aecbytes.com/feature/2005/corenete plancheck.html 7. lee jin k (2011) building environment rule and analysis (bera) language and its application for evaluating building circulation and spatial program. universiteit antwerpen, belgium, phd 8. martins ep, monterio a (2013) a bim based automated code-checking application for water distribution systems. autom construct 29:1223. 10.1016/j.autcon.2012.08.008 9. hjelseth e, nisbet n (2010) exploring semantic based model checking. in: proceedings of the cib w78 2010: 27th international conference, pp. 341351 10. malsane s, matthews j, lockley s, greenwood d (2015) development of an object model for automated compliance checking. autom constr 11:5158. 10.1016/j.aut- con.2014.10.004 1606 fire technology 2025 11. solibri model checkeing(smc). https://www.solibri.com/. last accessed: 30, 12, 2022 (2022) 12. smartreview automated plan review. https://smartreview.biz/apr_learn_more. last accessed: 30, 12, 2022 (2022) 13. bloch t, sacks r (2020) clustering information types for semantic enrichment of build- ing information models to support automated code compliance checking. j comput civil eng 34(6):04020040. 10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000922 14. solihin w, shaikh n, rong x, lam k (2004) beyond interoperatibility of building model: a case for code compliance checking. in: bp-cad workshop, carnegie melon university, pp. 1, 13 15. bloch t, katz m, yosef r, sacks r (2019) automated model checking for topologi- cally complex code requirements  security room case study. 2019 european conference on computing in construction, https://doi.org/10.35490/ec3.2019.157 16. xiong x, adan a, akinci b, huber d (2013) automatic creation of semantically rich 3d building models from laser scanner data. autom construct 31:325337. 10.1016/j. autcon.2012.10.006 17. sacks r, ma l, yosef r, borrmann a, daum s, kattel u (2017) semantic enrichment for building information modeling: procedure for compiling inference rules and opera- tors for complex geometry. j comput civil eng . 10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.000070 18. simeonea d, cursia s, acierno m (2019) bim semantic-enrichment for built heritage representation. autom constr 97:122137. 10.1016/j.autcon.2018.11.004 19. hong t, wang z, luo x, zhang w (2020) state-of-the-art on research and applica- tions of machine learning in the building life cycle. energy build 212:109831. 10.1016/j. enbuild.2020.109831 20. bomba m (2020) level of development (lod) specication part i & commentary for building information models and data. bim forum, 1519 21. simeone d, cursi s, acierno m (2019) bim semantic-enrichment for built heritage rep- resentation. autom constr 97:122137. 10.1016/j.autcon.2018.11.004 22. cha teauvieux-hellwig c, abualdenien j, borrmann a (2020) towards semantic enrich- ment of early-design timber models for noise and vibration analysis. ecppm 2020:17 23. bloch t (2022) connecting research on semantic enrichment of bim-review of approaches, methods and possible applications. j inform technol constr 27:416440 24. bloch t, sacks r (2018) comparing machine learning and rule-based inferencing for semantic enrichment of bim models. autom constr 91:256272. 10.1016/j.aut- con.2018.03.018 25. belsky m, sacks r, brilakis i (2016) semantic enrichment for building information modeling. comput aided civil infra eng 31:261274. 10.1111/mice.12128 26. flach pa, kakas ac (2000) abduction and induction: essays on their relation and integration. in: flach pa, kakas ac (eds) abductive and inductive reasoning: back- ground and issues springer, dordrecht, pp 127 27. strug b, slusarczyk g (2023) machine learning methods in bim-based applications - a review. vietnam j comput sci . 10.1142/s2196888823300028 28. jin c, xu m, lin l, zhou x (2018) exploring bim data by graph-based unsuper- vised learning. in: proceedings of the 7th international conference on pattern recog- nition applications and methods - icpram, pp. 582589. scitepress. https://doi.org/ 10.5220/0006715305820589 . insticc 29. nu nez-calzado pe, alarco n-lo pez ij, mart nez-go mez dc (2018) machine learning in bim. in: eubim 2018: proceedings of the international bim conference, pp. 99109 30. koo b, jung r, yu y (2021) automatic classication of wall and door bim element subtypes using 3d geometric deep neural networks. adv eng inform 47:101200 semantic enrichment of a bim... 1607 31. collins fc, braun a, ringsquandl m, hall dm, borrmann a (2021) assessing ifc classes with means of geometric deep learning on dierent graph encodings. in: proc. of the 2021 european conference on computing in construction, pp. 332341 32. kim j, song j, lee j (2019) recognizing and classifying unknown object in bim using 2d cnn. in: lee, j.-h. (ed.) computer-aided architectural design. hello, culture- 18th international conference, caad futures 2019, selected papers. communications in computer and information science, pp. 4757. springer, germany. https://doi.org/1 0.1007/978-981-13-8410-3_4 33. luo h, gao g, huang h, ke z, peng c, gu m (2023) automatic classication of wall and door bim element subtypes using 3d geometric deep neural networks. in: karlinsky l, michaeli t, nishino k (eds) computer vision - eccv 2022 workshops springer, cham, pp 349365 34. koo b, jung r, yu y, kim i (2021) a geometric deep learning approach for checking element-to-entity mappings in infrastructure building information models. j comput design eng 8(1):239250 35. bigdeli s, pauwels p, verstockt s, weghe n, merci b (2023) ml-based exit identica- tion. codeocean. accessed 02(08):2023 36. zhang r, el-gohary n (2020) a machine-learning approach for semantic matching of building codes and building information models (bims) for supporting automated code checking. in: rodrigues h, morcous g, shehata m (eds) recent res sustain struct springer, cham, pp 6473 37. zhang j, el-gohary nm (2016) extending building information models semiautomati- language processing techniques. j comput civil eng . cally using semantic natural 10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000536 38. solihin w, eastman c (2015) classication of rules for automated bim rule checking development. autom const 53:6982. 10.1016/j.autcon.2015.03.003 39. mohd nawi n, hussein a, samsudin n, hamid n, mohd yunus ma, aziz mf (2017) the eect of pre processing techniques and optimal parameters selection on back propagation neural networks. int j adv sci eng inform technol 7:770 40. ak d, venugopalan srd (2017) the eect of normalization on intrusion detection classiers (na ve bayes and j48). int j future revol comput sci commun eng 3:6064 41. hoste v (2005) optimization issues in machine learning of coreference resolution. phd thesis, universiteit antwerpen, faculteit letteren en wijsbegeerte 42. zoubir a, iskander d (2007) bootstrap methods and applications. signal process mag ieee 24:1019. 10.1109/msp.2007.4286560 43. ghojogh b, crowley m (2019) the theory behind overtting, cross validation, regular- ization, bagging, and boosting: tutorial. arxiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.1905.12 787.https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.12787 44. awad m, khanna r (2015) support vector machines for classication. apress, berke- ley, ca, pp. 3966 45. fawzy h, rady eha, abdel fattah am (2020) comparison between support vector machines and k-nearest neighbor for time series forecasting. j math comput sci 10 (6):23422359 46. chen t, guestrin c (2016) xgboost: a scalable tree boosting system. in: the 22nd acm sigkdd international conference, pp. 785794 . https://doi.org/10.1145/293967 2.2939785 47. subhi malallah h, bahjat abdulrazzaq m (2023) web-based agricultural management products for marketing system: survey. academic j nawroz univ 12(2):4962 1608 fire technology 2025 48. witten ih, frank e, hall ma (2011) data mining: practical machine learning tools and techniques. third edition edn. the morgan kaufmann series in data manage- ment systems, boston, pp. 587605 49. caon drs, amehraye a, razik j, chollet g, andrea o rv, mokbel c (2010) experi- ments on acoustic model supervised adaptation and evaluation by k-fold cross valida- tion technique. in: 2010 5th international symposium on i/v communications and mobile network, pp. 14. https://doi.org/10.1109/isvc.2010.5656264 50. kohavi r (1995) a study of cross-validation and bootstrap for accuracy estimation and model selection. int joint conf artif intell organ 14:11371143 51. kova cs g (2019) smote-variants: a python implementation of 85 minority oversampling techniques. neurocomputing 366:352354. 10.1016/j.neucom.2019.06.100 52. elreedy d, atiya a (2019) a comprehensive analysis of synthetic minority oversam- . 10.1016/j. for handling class imbalance. inform sci pling technique (smote) ins.2019.07.070 53. chawla nv, bowyer kw, hall lo, kegelmeyer wp (2002) smote: synthetic minor- ity over-sampling technique. j artif intell res 16(1):321357 54. han h, wang w-y, mao b-h (2005) borderline-smote: a new over-sampling method in imbalanced data sets learning. in: huang d-s, zhang x-p, huang g-b (eds) adv intell comput springer, berlin, heidelberg, pp 878887 55. he h, bai y, garcia ea, li s (2008) adasyn: adaptive synthetic sampling approach for imbalanced learning. in: proceedings of the international joint conference on neu- ral networks (ijcnn), pp. 13221328 56. baru (2013) prowsyn: proximity weighted synthetic oversampling technique for imbal- anced data set learning. in: advances in knowledge discovery and data mining, pp. 317328 57. menardi g, torelli n (2012) training and assessing classication rules with unbalanced data. data mining knowl discov . 10.1007/s10618-012-0295-5 58. feng h, hang l (2013) a novel boundary oversampling algorithm based on neighbor- hood rough set model: nrsboundary-smote. mathematical problems in engineering, 10 59. bunkhumpornpat c, sinapiromsaran k, lursinsap c (2009) safe-level-smote: safe- level-synthetic minority over-sampling technique for handling the class imbalanced problem. in: proceedings of the 13th pacic-asia conference on advances in knowl- edge discovery and data mining, pp. 475482 60. gazzah s, amara neb (2008) new oversampling approaches based on polynomial t- ting for imbalanced data sets. in: the eighth iapr international workshop on docu- ment analysis systems, pp. 677684 61. batista g, prati r, monard m-c (2004) a study of the behavior of several methods for learning training data. sigkdd explor 6:2029. 10.1145/ balancing machine 1007730.1007735 62. rivera wa, xanthopoulos p (2016) a priori synthetic over-sampling methods for increasing classication sensitivity in imbalanced data sets. expert sys appl 66:124135 63. ramentol e, caballero y, bello r, herrera f (2012) smote-rsb*: a hybrid prepro- cessing approach based on oversampling and undersampling for high imbalanced data- sets using smote and rough sets theory. knowl inform sys 33(2):245265. 10.1007/ s10115-011-0465-6 64. dang xt, tran dh, hirose o, satou k (2015) spy: a novel resampling method for improving classication performance in imbalanced data. in: 2015 seventh international conference on knowledge and systems engineering (kse), pp. 280285 semantic enrichment of a bim... 1609 65. batista geapa, prati rc, monard mc (2004) a study of the behavior of several methods for balancing machine learning training data. sigkdd explor newslett 6:20 29 66. rong t, gong h, ng w (2014) stochastic sensitivity oversampling technique for imbal- anced data. commun comput inform sci 481:161171. 10.1007/978-3-662-45652-1_18 67. garc a v, sa nchez j, mart n fe lez r, mollineda r (2012) surrounding neighborhood- based smote for learning from imbalanced data sets. progress artif intell 1:347362. 10.1007/s13748-012-0027-5 68. cateni s, colla v, vannucci m (2011) novel resampling method for the classication of imbalanced datasets for industrial and other real-world problems. in: 2011 11th international conference on intelligent systems design and applications, pp. 402407 69. sa ez ja, luengo j, stefanowski j, herrera f (2015) smote-ipf: addressing the noisy and borderline examples problem in imbalanced classication by a re-sampling method with ltering. inform sci 10:184203 70. hu j, he x, yu d-j, yang x-b, yang j-y, shen h-b (2014) a new supervised over- sampling algorithm with application to protein-nucleotide binding residue prediction. plos one 10:110 71. maciejewski t, stefanowski j (2011) local neighbourhood extension of smote for mining imbalanced data. in: 2011 ieee symposium on computational intelligence and data mining (cidm), pp. 104111 72. koziarski m, wozniak m (2017) ccr: a combined cleaning and resampling algorithm for imbalanced data classication. int j appl math comput sci 27:727736 73. li j, fong s, zhuang y (2015) optimizing smote by metaheuristics with neural net- work and decision tree. in: 2015 3rd international symposium on computational and business intelligence (iscbi), pp. 2632 74. cieslak da, chawla nv, striegel a (2006) combating imbalance in network intrusion datasets. in: 2006 ieee international conference on granular computing, pp. 732737 75. kunakorntum i, hinthong w, phunchongharn p (2020) a synthetic minority based on probabilistic distribution (symprod) oversampling for imbalanced datasets. ieee access, 114692114704 76. calleja j, fuentes o (2007) a distance-based over-sampling method for learning from imbalanced data sets. in: proceedings of the twentieth international florida articial intelligence, pp. 634635 77. puntumapon k, waiyamai k (2012) a pruning-based approach for searching precise and generalized region for synthetic minority over-sampling. in: tan p-n, chawla s, ho ck, bailey j (eds) adv knowl discov data min springer, berlin, heidelberg, pp 371382 78. urban jl, song j, santamaria s, fernandez-pello c (2019) ignition of a spot smolder in a moist fuel bed by a rebrand. fire safety j 108:102833 79. borowska k, stepaniuk j (2016) imbalanced data classication: a novel re-sampling approach combining versatile improved smote and rough sets. in: saeed k, home- nda w (eds) computer information systems and industrial management springer, cham, pp 3142 80. abdi l, hashemi s (2016) to combat multi-class imbalanced problems by means of over-sampling techniques. ieee transactions on knowledge and data engineering, 238251 81. barua s, islam mm, yao x, murase k (2014) mwmote-majority weighted minority oversampling technique for imbalanced data set learning. ieee trans knowl data eng 26:405425 1610 fire technology 2025 82. fergus p, cheung p, hussain a, al-jumeily d, dobbins c, iram s (2013) prediction of preterm deliveries from ehg signals using machine learning. plos one 8(10):116. 10.1371/journal.pone.0077154 83. peng j, hao d, yang l, du m, song x, jiang h, zhang y, zheng d (2020) evalua- tion of electrohysterogram measured from dierent gestational weeks for recognizing preterm delivery: a preliminary study using random forest. biocybern biomed eng 40 (1):352362 84. ren p, yao s, li j, valdes-sosa pa, kendrick km (2015) improved prediction of pre- term delivery using empirical mode decomposition analysis of uterine electromyography signals. plos one 10(7):116. 10.1371/journal.pone.0132116 85. naeem sm, ali af, eldosoky ma (2013) kl. comparison between using linear and non-linear features to classify uterine electromyography signals of term and preterm deliveries. in: 2013 30th national radio science conference (nrsc), pp. 492502. http s://doi.org/10.1109/nrsc.2013.6587953 86. idowu io, fergus p, hussain a, dobbins c, khalaf m, casana eslava rv, keight r (2015) articial intelligence for detecting preterm uterine activity in gynecology and obstetric care. in: 2015 ieee international conference on computer and information technology; ubiquitous computing and communications; dependable, autonomic and secure computing; pervasive intelligence and computing, pp. 215220. https://doi. org/10.1109/cit/iucc/dasc/picom.2015.31 87. hoseinzadeh s, amirani mc (2018) use of electro hysterogram (ehg) signal to diagnose preterm birth. in: electrical engineering (icee), iranian conference on, pp. 1477 1481. https://doi.org/10.1109/icee.2018.8472416 88. vandewiele g, dehaene i, kova cs g, sterckx l, janssens o, ongenae f, de backere f, de turck f, roelens k, decruyenaere j, van hoecke s, demeester t (2021) overly optimistic prediction results on imbalanced data: a case study of aws and benets 10.1016/j. when artmed.2020.101987 over-sampling. artif intell med 111:101987. applying 89. santos m, soares j, henriques abreu p, araujo h, santos j (2018) cross-validation for imbalanced datasets: avoiding overoptimistic and overtting approaches. ieee comput intell mag 13:5976. 10.1109/mci.2018.2866730 90. thai-nghe n, gantner z, schmidt-thieme l (2011) a new evaluation measure for learning from imbalanced data. in: the 2011 international joint conference on neural networks, pp. 537542. https://doi.org/10.1109/ijcnn.2011.6033267 91. berrar d (2019) cross-validation. in: ranganathan s, gribskov m, nakai k, scho n- bach c (eds) encyclopedia of bioinformatics and computational biology academic press, oxford, pp 542545 92. huang z, sang y, sun y, lv j (2022) a neural network learning algorithm for highly imbalanced data classication. inform sci 612:496513. 10.1016/j.ins.2022.08.074 93. komorniczak j, ksieniewicz p (2023) problexity-an open-source python library for supervised learning problem complexity assessment. neurocomputing 521:126136 94. komorniczak j, ksieniewicz p (2023) problexity - an open-source python library for supervised learning problem complexity assessment. neurocomputing 521:126136. 10.1016/j.neucom.2022.11.056 95. brownlee j (2022) why do i get dierent results each time in machine learning? ht tps://machinelearningmastery.com/dierent-results-each-time-in-machine-learning/ semantic enrichment of a bim... 1611 publishers note springer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional aliations. springer nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.!

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page6_img1.jpeg
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page7_img1.jpeg
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page9_img1.jpeg
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page14_img1.jpeg
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page16_img1.jpeg
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page16_img2.jpeg
S. Bigdeli et al. 2025_page22_img1.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from s. bigdeli et al. 2025_page6_img1.jpeg --- i required databy ---------------------4 legistation t no user input access data re rae available no. available through revit api module 2 se module yes yes . . t object-oriented bim model fmodule 3 data set transformer for acc enriched object-oriented bim model --- text from s. bigdeli et al. 2025_page7_img1.jpeg --- se saat sooo hi1 30zs bg epee ee ee ee ee ee ee ed 2 wine a ee ge ee. . tigi 1 y oy i ee ee wey 16.0 me i i aa i belae i rm i oe ca ee z ac eri como 4 ae fe y ss ca se i 7 j feowtg ar we eae a couloir pau mf --- text from s. bigdeli et al. 2025_page9_img1.jpeg --- compliance checker eastman, 2009 --- text from s. bigdeli et al. 2025_page14_img1.jpeg --- test training giatalciaalgaiacical mipim inia im mip ipia ve --- text from s. bigdeli et al. 2025_page22_img1.jpeg --- regh-a- -b sb-4yoeoa boe ue-s architecture structure steel precast systems insert annotate analyze --- evacroutechecker alt annotate doors check evac rules automated evacuation route checker project browser - project1.nvt x 2 level 1 x eh i views all el floor plans level 1
