==== TEXT ====
research on a bim model quality compliance checking method based on a knowledge graph simiao zhu1; jianliang zhou2; lei cheng3; xuehai fu4; yan wang5; and kexin dai6 abstract: with the development of information technology, building information modeling (bim) is becoming widely used in the construction industry. it is very important to ensure the quality and compliance of bim models. to solve the problem of time-consuming and laborious traditional checking methods and the limitation that existing software hard coding cannot adapt to rule changes, this paper proposes a bim model quality compliance checking method based on knowledge graph that can quickly check bim models through automated checking and ensure the modeling quality of bim models. firstly, knowledge extraction for bim modeling standards and delivery standards is carried out based on knowledge graph technology to structurally represent text. then, revit secondary development technology and the c# programming language are adopted to develop a bim model quality compliance checking system based on the knowledge graph analysis results and the structured query language (sql) built-in rule knowledge base. based on the knowledge base, the bim model is automatically checked for quality compliance, and the naming, material, parameters, and rationality of each professional component are checked. next, it is checked whether it conforms to the standard. finally, the model modification plan is provided by checking the problem components and noncompliance details. the case application results show that the bim model quality compliance checking system devel- oped based on knowledge graph technology can identify defects or errors that do not meet the standards in the model, verify the feasibility and practicability of the system, and provide a new method for bim designers to modify and improve the model. doi: 10.1061/jccee5. cpeng-5950.  2024 american society of civil engineers. author keywords: knowledge graph; building information model; automated checking; rule base; c#; revit secondary development. introduction with the rapid development and widespread application of building information modeling (bim) technology, the construction industry is entering an era of digital transformation. bim technology has received high attention from the state in china, and a series of bim policies have been introduced one after another to promote the development of bim technology in china. the market scale for building information models in china is increasing year by year, 1research assistant, school of mechanics and civil engineering, china univ. of mining and technology, jiangsu, xuzhou 221116, china. email: zhusimiao@cumt.edu.cn 2professor, school of mechanics and civil engineering, china univ. of mining and technology, jiangsu, xuzhou 221116, china (corre- sponding author). orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4196-3247. email: zhoujianliang@cumt.edu.cn 3research assistant, school of mechanics and civil engineering, china univ. of mining and technology, jiangsu, xuzhou 221116, china. email: ts23030135p31@cumt.edu.cn 4research assistant, school of mechanics and civil engineering, china univ. of mining and technology, jiangsu, xuzhou 221116, china. email: fu_xuehai@cumt.edu.cn 5ph.d. student, school of mechanics and civil engineering, china univ. of mining and technology, jiangsu, xuzhou 221116, china. email: 11788@xzit.edu.cn 6research assistant, school of mechanics and civil engineering, china univ. of mining and technology, jiangsu, xuzhou 221116, china. email: ts21030142p31@cumt.edu.cn note. this manuscript was submitted on january 17, 2024; approved on july 9, 2024; published online on october 17, 2024. discussion period open until march 17, 2025; separate discussions must be submitted for in- dividual papers. this paper is part of the journal of computing in civil engineering,  asce, issn 0887-3801. and enterprises investment in bim applications has shown a grow- ing trend. more and more construction projects adopt a bim model for design delivery. in the application process of bim technology, the compliance of the model is crucial. the quality of bim models is significant for the accuracy of the entire project (wangara 2018). bim model quality compliance checking is a technical method to evaluate the quality compliance of building information models based on bim modeling standards (choi and lee 2022). however, due to the different usage habits of different designers, the property settings of various components in the bim model are also different. in the process of creating models, many modeling software programs allow the use of common component libraries and custom families, which can lead to modeling errors and omissions (koo and shin 2018). moreover, existing bim models suffer from problems such as low standardization and uneven quality levels, which lead to poor information exchange among construction parties due to non- standard components. therefore, there is an increasingly urgent need for compliance checking of bim models. quality checking of bim models involves verifying that the model has been correctly designed and defined, and that the model components are complete or otherwise required (wangara 2018). traditional model checking relies heavily on human experience, which is time-consuming and laborious. in fact, since the concept of automated compliance checking (acc) was proposed, many studies have used hardcoding to turn standards and specifications into computer-executable rules to realize automated compliance checking, but this approach is less flexible and less interoperable, and it is difficult to adapt to the ever-changing rule requirements (solihin and eastman 2016). in contrast, a knowledge graph is a kind of network con- taining rich semantic relations that can integrate data from different  asce 04024049-1 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. sources, correlate all kinds of information, allow the reuse of in- formation (pauwels et al. 2010), and fully express the constraint relations between entities, providing a new way of thinking for compliance checking. due to the large volume of construction proj- ects, long construction cycle, complex unstructured data, and dif- ferent bim delivery standards required by different projects, it is necessary to apply knowledge graphs in the process of bim model checking for effective expression of complex relationships in the rules of the provisions to achieve a comprehensive modeling qual- ity of bim model analysis (deng et al. 2022). to solve the problem of time-consuming and laborious tradi- tional checking methods and the limitations of hard coding that cannot adapt to the change of rules, a method of bim model quality compliance checking based on knowledge graphs is proposed in this study, and a soft coding form is provided to realize rule com- pilation. the bim model automatic check plug-in generated by the secondary development of revit based on c# has strong practical value. the contents of this study include the following: (cid:129) the knowledge graph is established by extracting the knowl- edge of bim modeling standards and delivery standards. (cid:129) a dynamic rule base and bim model quality compliance check- ing system are established based on the algorithm. (cid:129) the feasibility and practicability of the developed system are verified by a case study. this study can help ensure the quality and accuracy of building information models, improve work efficiency, and reduce errors and duplication of work. with automated checking, potential de- sign problems and conflicts can be quickly identified, saving time and money. literature review quality compliance checking of bim models in the process of bim application, modelers need to follow the modeling standards to create building information models (koo and shin 2018). contents to be checked include component naming, parameter compliance, correct spatial relationships of model com- ponents, completeness of parameters, and proper delivery formats. a bim model is a digital modeling tool used in construction projects, integrating various types of information such as geomet- ric shapes, spatial relationships, materials, structures, and so on. conducting quality compliance checks on the bim model helps confirm whether the model meets the relevant specifications, stan- dards, and requirements. these checks are used to identify errors, omissions, conflicts, and inconsistencies in the models, thereby im- proving the reliability, accuracy, and coordination of the project. the compliance check of the bim model is actually a rule-based check (luo and gong 2015). eastman et al. (2009) carried out the research on rule-based automated checks in architectural design. they proposed four stages for rule-based checks: 1. rule interpretation: translating standard terms into computer- readable forms. 2. model preparation: building models containing all kinds of information (types, attributes, and so on) required for rule checking. 3. rule execution: apply rules to check the model. 4. check report: report the check results in the form of an example graphic report or reference to the original rules. software development for automated specification checking first started in 1966, when fenves (1966) discovered the deci- sion table and worked on how to check the specification through computer programming. singapore developed an automated code checking system, corenet e-plancheck, based on the auto- mated checking process for bim (liebich et al. 2004; solihin et al. 2017). at the beginning of the 21st century, the international code council (icc), as a developer and promoter of building codes, launched the smartcodes project, aiming to develop code inter- pretable software for evaluating bim models [d. conover, method and apparatus for automatically determining compliance with building regulations,u.s. patent application 12/232,841 (2009)]. it is undeniable that existing software is successful in checking a specific provision. however, due to the specificity of the hard-coded rules, these software or systems can only work in specific domains or proprietary models, and their scalability and transparency of the rules need to be improved, hence the so-called black box approach (nawari 2019). the process of quality compliance checking of bim models is based on bim data and enforcing rules to enable automated check- ing and evaluation of the models. solihin et al. (2017, 2020) argued that data availability and accessibility are the keys to automated rule checking, based on which they proposed a simplified bim- based rule (bimrl) approach for building data to achieve the optimal application of a bim-based rule checking system. (choi et al. 2014) developed an automated evacuation rule checking system that automatically checks and evaluates the bim data to determine whether the model complies with the regulations. xie et al. (2022) developed a knowledge base management system (kbms) to extract the model information data. the developed revit plug-in has the functions of model completeness, view posi- tioning checking, and so on. automatic rule checking in the mechanical, electrical and plumbing (mep) system was realized. currently, many researchers have begun exploring methods for quality compliance checking of bim models, and there are many worthy research results in the fields of water supply systems, tem- porary facilities, modular buildings, deep foundation pits, and others. martins and monteiro (2013) developed a lica application, which includes hydraulic analysis, code checking and view output, and so on. based on bim, it can perform automatic code checks on domestic water supply system in portugal. choi and lee (2022) developed a quality checking system for temporary engineering based on bim technology, with the main modules being bim modeling and quantity detection. by automatically executing quality checking tasks, the quality checking process of temporary works can be improved, and the efficiency and accuracy of quality checking can be improved. sun and kim (2022) proposed an automatic code compliance checking method to verify the quality of the modular bim model. the automatic checking system established can serve as a platform for connecting users and manufacturers. luo and gong (2015) pro- posed an automated code compliance checking method based on the bim model that can be used to carry out efficient and accurate code compliance checking in the field of deep foundation pits specification compliance checking. koo and shin (2018) formu- lated a support vector machine (svm) framework using multiple bim models for identifying bim elements in bim models and misclassifying of industry foundation class (ifc) classes. application of knowledge graph in automatic checking the concept of a knowledge graph was formally put forward by google in 2012 to support semantic searching. by utilizing knowl- edge graph technology, industry knowledge can be continuously classified and summarized into different knowledge ontologies in the field of construction engineering. common techniques for automatic code compliance checks include the following  asce 04024049-2 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. (guo et al. 2021; ismail et al. 2017): (1) using existing software or plug-ins for code compliance checks; (2) establishing a knowledge base and rule engine based on object-oriented methods; (3) inter- preting rules based on logical methods such as predicate logic, con- cept maps, and deontology; and (4) creating an ontology method framework based on semantic web technologies. existing bim check tools mostly rely on hard-coded rules (bloch and sacks 2020), which have the main drawbacks of limited scalability and high maintenance and modification costs, making them unable to adapt to the continuous revision of building codes. users of such software can only customize rules based on the pro- vided rule templates and project requirements, without the ability to access, modify, or adjust the systems rules (fan et al. 2019). therefore, the goal of developing an automatic checking platform capable of accommodating all building regulations remains chal- lenging (bloch and sacks 2020). knowledge graph technology makes it possible to develop com- pilation rules in the direction of soft coding. based on the knowl- edge graph technology, the standards of the construction industry can be updated and managed in real time, and when the standards change, the knowledge graph can be updated in time to ensure the accuracy and compliance of the checking. quality compliance checking through the knowledge graph ensures consistency be- tween bim models from different teams and different phases, enabling each team to model and check according to the same requirements. in view of the limitations caused by hard coding of normative texts, many scholars have carried out research on converting rules into soft-coding forms, including semantic web, ontology, machine learning, natural language processing, and other methods. jouve et al. (2003) and esteves and joseph (2008) used semantic web and ontology technologies, respectively, to extract knowledge from government regulation texts and conduct compliance checks based on knowledge models. solihin and eastman (2016) used knowl- edge representation to formalize rules and capture rules in the form of concept maps. zhang and el-gohary (2016, 2017) proposed an automated compliance checking method for building codes based on natural language processing technology. salama and el-gohary (2016) proposed a text classification algorithm based on semantic and machine learning to realize automatic rule extraction of regu- lations and contract specifications. zhou and el-gohary (2017) proposed an information extraction algorithm based on ontology technology to realize automatic energy compliance checking in the building field. zhang and el-gohary (2021) and wang and el-gohary (2022) extracted building code relationships based on machine learning methods to support automatic compliance check- ing onsite. through the knowledge representation method of semantic modeling, dynamic rules can be generated for different building codes. yang et al. (2023) established a new representation model based on knowledge graph, designed a semiautomatic construction design code and automatic bidding process, and verified the fea- sibility of the model and method through case studies and experi- ments. peng and liu (2023) based on bim and knowledge graph technology, transformed the standard clauses into a graph database and created an automatic code compliance check system, enabling automatic checking for bim models and the generation of checking reports. wang et al. (2022) developed a plug-in to extract bim model information into a graph database, and translated mep specifications into a knowledge base based on knowledge graph technology, so as to realize model checking and rule compliance checking of the mep system. beach et al. (2015) developed a rule- based semantic approach and tested a regulatory compliance sys- tem framework to demonstrate its generality. knowledge graphs have been studied more extensively for automated checking of construction safety. zhang et al. (2015) formalized building safety codes and established three models based on ontology, namely, building product model, building pro- cess model, and building safety model, to realize automatic safety planning based on bim. shen et al. (2022) combined natural lan- guage processing and ontology technology to establish a safety rule base and created a dynamic building safety rule checking frame- work, enabling automatic identification of safety risks during build- ing construction. li et al. (2022) integrated subway construction safety risk factors with building regulations using bim and seman- tic web methods, developed an ontology, and performed logical reasoning to achieve automated rule checking based on sparql protocol and rdf query language (sparql). bao et al. (2022) developed a dynamic safety check framework based on rules and topological structures. by extracting the attribute information from the bim model, constructing a topological relationship data- base, and executing rule checks, automatic safety checks can be achieved. this synthesis of existing research shows that a knowledge graphbased bim model quality compliance checking method has important research value and application prospects. most of the existing research is based on the normative checking of building codes, and there are fewer studies on the automated compliance checking of models for bim modeling standards. chinas bim standards or specification system is complex; the text presents the characteristics of multisource heterogeneity. knowledge graph technology can parameterize and structure the text information and realize the mutual mapping of spatial attribute information between bim standards and bim model elements through information ex- traction and knowledge base construction. this study introduces the emerging knowledge engineering technology of knowledge graphs and uses natural language processing (nlp) technology to structure the entities, concepts, events, and their relationships in the specification, build a rule base, and realize the knowledge expres- sion of bim standard clauses. then, through the establishment of an automated compliance checking system for bim models based on algorithms, automated checking and quality improvement of bim models are realized. methodology bim model quality compliance checking, different from building code compliance checking, refers to checking and evaluating the quality of the building information model at the design phase and the construction phase, thereby judging whether the created model meets the requirements based on the national, industry, and enter- prise bim standards or bim delivery standards. conducting bim model quality compliance checking can timely discover and correct design irrationalities and realize high-quality delivery of design results. the purpose of this study is to analyze the rules of bim modeling standards based on knowledge graph technology, and to realize the automatic quality compliance checking of bim models by developing program execution rules. the research framework of this paper is shown in fig. 1. the four execution rules are as follows: 1. rule interpretation: based on knowledge graph technology, knowledge extraction of bim modeling standards is carried out, knowledge representation is carried out, and rule knowl- edge base is established by structured query language (sql) language. 2. model preparation: the bim model is created with revit version 2020, and information is extracted from the model based  asce 04024049-3 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 1. research framework of bim model quality compliance checking based on knowledge graph. on the revit application programming interface (api) to match the rule knowledge base. 3. rule execution: the c# language is used to develop the revit plug-in, and a bim model quality checking system is estab- lished. the functions of the checking system include naming check, material check, parameter check, and rationality check. information are the rule knowledge base and component matched in the system so as to judge whether the model mod- eling conforms to the rules. 4. checking report: the checking report is presented in a visual form to judge the compliance of each component of the model in detail, including the name, id, and noncompliance details of the component. the user clicks on the report window view of the faulty component to automatically locate the faulty compo- nent for modification. establishment process of knowledge graph for compliance check a knowledge graph is a graphical model for representing and organizing knowledge. it is a semantic network composed of en- tities and relationships between entities (deng et al. 2022). as a structured representation method, the knowledge graph aims to capture the associations between entities and help computers under- stand and infer complex semantic relationships. in engineering, knowledge graphs can be used to represent various knowledge el- ements such as engineering components, materials, specifications, standards, as well as their relationships and properties. the goal of this research is to standardize and semantically express the text in engineering specifications, realize the digitalization of engineering specification data, and assist users in conducting quality compli- ance checks on bim models. data sources the quality compliance checking of the bim model is based on the bim modeling standard. to meet the needs of engineering con- struction, local and national bim policies and standards have been introduced successively. the existing bim standards for building information models have systematically elaborated on the naming, color, and classification of building components, and so on. common bim modeling standards include existing chinese national bim standards: [gb/t51212-2016 (ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china 2016); gb/t51235-2017 (ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china 2017a); gb/t51269-2017 (ministry of housing and urban- rural development of the peoples republic of china 2017b); gb/t51301-2018 and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china 2018); gb/ t51447-2021 (ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china 2021)]. in addition, china architectural design institute (2016) provides basic rules for the naming of files, systems, components, and so on. of housing (ministry these standards have comprehensively constrained the design and delivery requirements of bim models and are used to stand- ardize the attributes of bim model components to improve the readability, maintainability, and accuracy of data exchange. the standard system in china contains several levels. the enterprise delivery standard for the bim model is based on the chinese national standard. therefore, the data of the knowledge graph created in this study is based on the aforementioned national bim standards, combined with the bim delivery standards of the enterprise. based on the characteristics of the syntactic structure, the aforementioned spec- ifications are translated into a language that can be recognized by the computer, and knowledge extraction of the text is carried out to build the knowledge graph. the translated rules are compiled into the system by means of algorithms. knowledge extraction nlp technology can perform word segmentation and semantic analysis of normative texts, which is convenient for the coding of subsequent normative provisions (chowdhary and chowdhary 2020). knowledge extraction involves entity extraction, relation extraction, and attribute extraction. through nlp techniques, knowledge is extracted from the collected data, and the relation- ships among entities, attributes, and entities are extracted to form an ontological knowledge expression. types of data can be classi- fied as semistructured data, structured data, or unstructured data according to their structure. natural language processing includes two mechanisms: information retrieval (ir) and information extrac- tion (ie) (chowdhary and chowdhary 2020), in which ie aims to extract structured data from unstructured and semistructured text. in this research, named entity recognition (ner) technology is used to identify key entities in the text. ner technology is capable  asce 04024049-4 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 2. article structuring based on natural language processing. of identifying and classifying information elements from the text, referred to as named entities (ne) (yan et al. 2018). provisions are found, the entity and attribute relations are extracted, and the text of the standard is translated to prepare for the construc- tion of the knowledge graph. natural language parsing in this study, the specifications are disassembled according to natu- ral language processing mechanisms (including word segmenta- tion, part-of-speech tagging, syntactic analysis, target keywords, and constraint sequence extension) (wang and el-gohary 2022). the structured processing of normative provisions is to classify the entities and constraint relations in text and translate them into parameterized logical rules that can be processed by computers. the normative provisions generally have the structural character- istics of target object, modal word, logical relation word, attribute word, determiner word, and so on. the basic units of specification checking are the target object, attribute word, and qualifier. modal words are used to express the degree of rigor required by a norm (appropriate, strictly prohibited, and so on). logical relation words are divided into judgment relation words (yes, satisfy, conform, and so on), position relation words (upper, middle, lower, and so on), comparison relation words (less than, greater than, not less than, and so on), distance relation words (distance, to, and so on), and inclusion relation words (setting, arrangement, and so on). taking article 4.3.6 of gb/t51269-2017 and article 3.2.1 of gb/t51301-2018 as examples, the target object, modal words, logical relation words, and qualifiers can be determined (fig. 2). by analogy, in a similar way, the structural rules in the normative named entity and attribute recognition in the context of bim, knowledge maps are constructed by identifying and relating building elements, such as walls, floors, and so on, to create nodes. these nodes can not only represent spe- cific building components but also further enrich their data content by defining properties such as materials, dimensions, and others. in addition, relational extraction technology is used to identify and extract semantic relationships between entities in text, which can be relationships between entities or relationships between en- tities and attributes. from these relationships, we can construct triples (subject-predict-objects), which are the basic units of the knowledge graph. to combine the component information of the bim model, we have carried out in-depth sorting and analysis of bim standard documents. through this process, we can tease out key knowledge elements such as entity elements, attribute associations, and geo- metric data in the model. further, we systematically extract and classify bim models (fig. 3), including but not limited to the fol- lowing categories: (cid:129) professional classification: classify components according to different professional areas of the construction industry.  asce 04024049-5 j. comput. civ. eng. fig. 3. knowledge extraction and classification. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 1. identification of entities and attributes of bim standard provisions profession entity attribute parameter architectural wall bottom elevation top elevation top of structural plate bottom of structural plate (cid:129) component entity: identify and classify specific components in the bim model. (cid:129) component attributes: define the attributes of components, such as material, size specifications, and so on. (cid:129) component parameters: list the detailed parameters of the com- ponent, which are critical to the function and performance of the component. taking the clause the bottom of the building wall is attached to the top of the structural board, and the top of the wall is attached to the bottom of the structural board as an example, the entity and attribute information is extracted as presented in table 1. knowledge fusion to improve the quality of the knowledge graph, data integration and entity alignment of heterogeneous data sources are needed. therefore, data preprocessing is required to facilitate subsequent data analysis and modeling. by merging the same entity and the same relationship, unified rules are established based on normative texts, including naming rules for components, color-matching rules for materials, parameter-setting rules, and rationality rules. component naming rules due to the different naming habits of model creators, the names of various components in the modeling process vary greatly. there- fore, this study refers to the chinese academy of sciences bim standard series - naming rules and bim model delivery standards for enterprises to formulate the naming rules of each component to standardize the naming of various components of the model. the naming formats for some components are given in table 2. material color-matching rules to improve the visualization function of the model and facilitate component management, various professions need to make table 2. naming format of bim model components (part) naming rules [professional code]-[component name]-[thickness] [professional code]-[type name]-[model] [professional code]-[component name and number]-[section size bh] [professional code]-[pipeline type]-[specification] [professional code]-[type name] [professional code]-[type name] [professional code]-[equipment name]-[installation method] systematic color-matching regulations for their respective pipe- lines and components. the project-based bim model delivery standards have material requirements and red, green, blue (rgb) standards for the components of different disciplines, i.e., for the rules to be followed when modeling. this study combines national standards and industry standards to summarize the re- quirements for color matching of component materials, such as given in table 3. parameter-setting rules bim models are parametric digital models, and the various com- ponents of the model contain numerous geometric and nongeomet- ric information, which are stored in digital form in the model database. the geometric information of bim model components describes the geometric features of the components, including the shape, size, and position of the components. the nongeometric information of bim model components includes information on the structure and function of the components, such as structural form, connection method, opening mode of doors and windows, and so on. to ensure that the components in the building informa- tion model can meet the corresponding design and construction requirements, these parameters need to be defined and regulated. the parameter classification of some model components is pro- vided in table 4. rationality rules by analyzing the existing bim standards, the rationality rules of the model put forward requirements for model integrity, modeling methods, component connection, and spatial relationships. there- fore, when checking the bim model, the aforementioned rules should be analyzed based on the bim delivery standards to test the rationality of components: 1. model integrity: integrity refers to whether the components con- tained in the model are complete. in the bim delivery standard, the modeling content of architecture, structure, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing, and so on, will be specified, and the problem of missing painting of components is not allowed. 2. modeling method: bim modeling standards use different modeling methods for different components. for existing fam- ilies in the revit software, common components such as walls, element wall floor doors and windows beam/column pipeline air hose cable bridge lighting equipment examples a-external wall-300 s-structural slab-150 a-single fire door-m1521 s-kl1-500600 p-water supply pipe(j)-dn50 m-air supply duct e-bas e-distribution box-concealed installation table 3. material color matching requirements for model components (part) elements off-wall fireproof partition wall beam floor structural column smoke exhaust pipe air supply duct rgb (177, 200, 234) (170, 45, 42) (0, 128, 0) (128, 128, 128) (255, 128, 0) (255, 255, 128) (0, 0, 255) elements new air duct condensing tube refrigerant pipe cooling water supply automatic alarm water supply pipe pressure waste water pipe rgb (0, 255, 0) (255, 0, 255) (128, 64, 64) (0, 204, 204) (255, 127, 223) (0, 153, 76) (153, 114, 0)  asce 04024049-6 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 4. parameters of building information model components (part) element/category parameters development of a bim model quality compliance checking system wall floor beam/column window/door mechanical wall height, thickness, structure, fire rating, sound insulation rating, and so on floor thickness, load grade, structure, and so on beam/column section size, structure, load grade, and so on window/door type, size, fire rating, sound insulation rating, and so on air conditioning pipe size, fan type, air volume grade, and so on electrical electrical line size, switch type, load level, and so on beams, and so on need to use the correct family creation to create models. 3. component connection: check whether the component con- nections are correct, whether the component is connected with surrounding components, and whether it conflicts with other components. 4. spatial scope: check whether the floor height, entrance width, wall thickness, number of windows, air conditioning equipment capacity, and so on comply with the building requirements and specifications. knowledge representation to process the canonical text into a format that can be processed by a computer, the logical relationship between the rules is established with the extracted knowledge. a graph database is a model for representing and storing graph data, consisting of nodes and edges. each node and edge can contain attributes to describe their char- acteristics (liu et al. 2021) used for storing and querying graph data. in this study, a graph database approach is chosen for rep- resenting rule-based semantic knowledge to better represent the complex relationships and semantics of bim modeling standards. neo4j version 1.5.8, a graph database, is chosen for storing and representing the specification standards of bim models due to its strong operability through a web interface, enabling operations such as writing, outputting, querying, and so on. by assigning ap- propriate attributes to nodes and edges, it becomes convenient for subsequent queries and analyses. thus, a triple data structure is formed using neo4j. for querying and analysis, attribute graph databases are com- monly used. cypher is the declarative query language for neo4j; it can be used to write query languages to retrieve and analyze knowledge from the attribute graph in architectural specifications (wang et al. 2022). neo4j can present semantic relationships between entities and can be interactively queried and analyzed. the specification mentioned in the section data sources is used for knowledge extraction, and the knowledge graph is constructed. as shown in fig. 4, it is a knowledge graph that extracts the text from gb/t51269-2017 (ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china 2017b), in which the relation haspartof represents the inclusion relation and property represents component attributes. for the bim projects proprietary bim delivery standards, further knowledge extraction and rule translation will be carried out through the system in the subsequent algorithm development process. bim model checking process based on knowledge rules base in this system, the quality checking process of bim model com- ponents is shown in fig. 5. first, the target components of the bim model need to be selected, and the system will automatically query the bim standards in the rule base for quality checks. after the checking is completed, the user can view the report and man- ually modify the properties of components that do not meet the rules to complete the checking. bim model component information extraction extracting component information from the bim model is one of the important steps to ensuring quality compliance. to achieve interoperability and semantic consistency of data, a data mapping approach is adopted to match bim data with a knowledge graph. to determine whether the bim model complies with the standards, a thorough examination of both the geometric and nongeometric information of the model components is required. revit is one of the most commonly used software for bim. it is a large database itself and provides an open api. in this study, revit 2020 is used as the loading and output tool of the bim model, and the visual studio 2019 platform is used. based on visual studio in the c# language for revit secondary development, a bim model automated checking system is designed. one of the most impor- tant algorithms for bim model automated checking is to obtain component information and extract the parameters and attributes contained in the component. the process of object acquisition and parameter acquisition is shown in fig. 6. the basic procedures are create collector  get family symbol  get family instance  get parameters  get value. rule knowledge base module based on the related content of the knowledge graph studied as previously mentioned, the standard knowledge base of the building information model is established by an algorithm. the professional specifications of architecture, structural, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and other professional specifications correspond to the components one by one. access objects are created based on com- ponent id, type, name, size, and other characteristics, as shown in fig. 7. to facilitate user-defined rule bases, based on previous research on bim standard rule analysis and the establishment of the knowl- edge graph, the relational database sql server version 2019 is used to establish the rule base, the c# programming language and windows presentation foundation (wpf) framework are used to create windows, and the interaction between the database ado. net assembly and the data source is realized. by clicking on the standard panel, the rule database will be displayed. in this rule da- tabase, rules can be added, deleted, and edited. the input/output (io) library is introduced based on the c# language, which can realize the import and export of files. through the algorithm, the bim standard generation rule base for different enterprises can be realized. the dynamic storage of rules in the developed rule knowl- edge base can realize the identification of bim delivery standards for different projects. now, the edit and add functions will be discussed as an exam- ple (fig. 8). an (*) field indicates that the input box for the field has to be entered; otherwise, a new rule cannot be generated. compared with traditional hardcoding, the studys knowledge base of rules is  asce 04024049-7 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 4. knowledge graph display based on neo4j (partial). stored in the database in the form of expressions of knowledge, thereby enabling the checkers to add modifications to existing rules, increasing the maintainability of the rule knowledge base. through the dynamic rule base, different checkers can formulate model checking rules according to the needs of different bim proj- ects, which greatly solves the limitations of traditional hard coding. in different bim projects, the same rules can be reused, reducing duplication of effort. additionally, the knowledge graphbased knowledge base can be easily expanded to accommodate more rules and concepts, adapt to the size of the project, and use the sql query language to automate compliance checks. the dynamic rule knowledge base based on knowledge graph and sql provides a more efficient, flexible, and user-friendly solution for the compli- ance checking of bim models. automated checking function module the automated checking function module is the core function of the bim model quality compliance checking. based on the rule- making process of the section knowledge fusion, the function design of this module is carried out to check whether the properties of the components in the bim model conform to the rules. by click- ing on different function panels in the system, the corresponding check function can be realized. fig. 9 shows the functional check window of the checking system, respectively, for naming checking, material checking, parameter checking, and rationality checking. the parts of the checking system are as follows: 1. naming check: check whether the naming of model compo- nents meets the standards. 2. material check: check whether the materials endowed by the model components meet the standards, including the naming, mapping, and color of the materials. 3. parameter check: check whether the parameters of the model components meet the standards, including the consistency, com- pleteness, and accuracy of the parameters. (cid:129) parameter consistency: elements of the same type in the model should have the same parameter settings to maintain consistency. (cid:129) parameter integrity: the parameter values of elements in the model should not be missing or incorrect. for exam- ple, the area of a room should include all the areas within the room.  asce 04024049-8 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. system includes four parts, namely, model integrity, modeling method, component connection, and spatial scope. case study bim model case overview the case used in this research is the beijingshanghai high- speed railway west station of xuzhou metro line 6. the bim model was created by the bim engineer of the project using revit software. the model includes the main body of the station, the attached civil construction model, the envelope structure model, the electromechanical pipeline and equipment, and the strong and weak electric pipeline and equipment models. fig. 10 is the bim model drawing of the station. the bim model was checked to verify the feasibility and practicability of the devel- oped system. bim standard rule knowledge base in fact, to standardize the comprehensive bim application of the construction drawing design stage and construction phase of each participating unit of the rail transit line 6 project and to clarify the work content and deliverables of each participating unit in this stage, the bim project manager of this project based on the existing national and local standards. in accordance with the bim applica- tion management measures for xuzhou rail transit engineering, the bim delivery rules for the construction drawing design stage and construction stage of the xuzhou metro line 6 project are formulated. in this case, the naming, material, parameters, and rationality of bim model components can be compiled by rules: (1) click export, (2) import the bim model delivery standard of xuzhou metro line 6, (3) conduct knowledge extraction based on natural lan- guage processing technology, (4) read the naming requirements, material requirements, and parameter requirements of the bim model from the file, and (5) add new rules to the knowledge base. the knowledge base systematically classifies the sources of bim standards, the specific descriptions of specification texts, compo- nent entities, attributes, and checking rules, as shown in fig. 11. the final rule knowledge base identified a total of 65 naming rules, 56 material rules, 62 parameter rules, and 43 rationality rules in the delivery standard. fig. 5. bim model checking process based on knowledge rule base. (cid:129) parameter accuracy: the elements in the model should ac- curately reflect the size, shape, and position of the actual components. the size of the elements should meet the design requirements. 4. rationality check: according to the introduction of the ration- ality rule in the section rationality rules, this module of this fig. 6. bim model component information acquisition method of revit secondary development.  asce 04024049-9 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 7. access-based rules and component information matching database. fig. 8. editing and add function of the rule knowledge base for the bim model checking system: (a) editing rule function interface; and (b) add rule function interface. bim model checking report the checking report is the last stage of the application of the bim model quality compliance checking system, and the bim model checking report is designed to provide users with the ability to view model component noncompliance so that they can easily modify and improve the model. the knowledge graphbased bim model quality checking system can functionally check all the components contained in the bim model, and all the components of the bim model are checked to make a judgment on component compliance. the checking results showed that there are 398 noncompliances in the model (architecture: 79, structural: 86, pluming: 84, mechanical: 53, electrical: 47, and other: 19). taking the checking results of the architectural profession as an example, the report shows the checking status of the components, including the profession to which the component belongs, the fam- ily name, the component name, the component id, the checking content, and the details of the noncompliance. the window of the checking results and the number of problematic components in the profession are displayed in real time (fig. 12). therefore, users can modify the noncompliance details of problematic components to  asce 04024049-10 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 9. functional check windows of the bim model quality compliance checking system. fig. 10. bim model of xuzhou metro line 6 beijingshanghai high-speed railway west station.  asce 04024049-11 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. improve the efficiency of personnel checks and the quality of bim models. once the user clicks on a noncompliance message for a com- ponent, the model view will locate and highlight the specified component, and the user can modify the component attributes in response to the detailed description of the noncompliance presented in the report. to verify the accuracy of the checking system, the checking report of the noncompliant component is compared with fig. 11. xuzhou metro line 6 rules knowledge base: (a) knowledge base of naming rules; (b) knowledge base of material rules; (c) knowledge base of parameter rules; and (d) knowledge base of rationality rules.  asce 04024049-12 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 11. (continued.) the component properties, and the results show that the checking results of the system are correct. for example, by clicking on the noncompliant escalator (id 2035785), the system automatically locates and highlights the component, and the report shows that the naming of the component with the same name does not comply with the rules (fig. 13). specifically, the problem detail is naming does not comply with the rules: [type name]. the members prop- erties panel in revit should be compared in order to make sure the checking result is correct. clicking on the floor member that does not comply with the rules (id 1089624), the report shows that the member naming, material, and parameters do not comply with the rules (fig. 14).  asce 04024049-13 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 12. checking report for the architecture profession. the noncompliance details are the named thickness is inconsis- tent with the floor thickness parameter and the material does not comply with the rules: rgb (128, 128, 128). checking the proper- ties panel of this component, we can see that its named thickness is 100 but the actual thickness parameter is 120, which is in- consistent. moreover, the real color of the component is rgb (0, 0, 0), which really does not meet the rule requirements, and the checking system determines that it is correct. therefore, comparing the consistency of the checking results with the revit property can verify that the checking results are reliable. evaluation of system performance based on checking reports the bim model quality compliance checking system based on knowledge graph has been applied and tested in the bim model case of xuzhou metro line 6 beijingshanghai high-speed railway west station. the performance evaluation of the system mainly relies on an automatically generated checking report, which details various noncompliance issues in the model, including spe- cific nonconformities in naming, materials, parameters, and ra- tionality. according to the preceding analysis and statistics of the application results of the case, the superiority and feasibility of the performance of the functional components of the developed system are verified, mainly in the following aspects: (cid:129) rule base coverage and flexibility: in the checking process of this case, the existing national bim modeling standards and bim delivery standards of this project are integrated, and a total of 112 named checking rules, material checking rules, parame- ter checking rules, and rationality checking rules are generated through the systematic identification and user addition of the rule knowledge base. it was used for the compliance checking of the bim model of xuzhou metro line 6 beijingshanghai high-speed railway west station. (cid:129) performance efficiency: compared with the traditional man- ual inspection, the system significantly improves checking effi- ciency and can complete the compliance checking of a large number of components in a short time. (cid:129) system identification ability and accuracy: the bim model in this case has a total of 2,496 components, including 398 non- compliant components identified by the system, and multiple professional fields such as architecture, structural, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing. the system can accurately identify noncompliant components in the bim model, such as the nam- ing problems of escalators and the inconsistency between floor naming and real attribute parameters. the high accuracy and  asce 04024049-14 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 13. noncompliant escalator details. fig. 14. noncompliant floor details. reliability of the system are verified by comparing the compli- ance check results with the consistency of revit properties. (cid:129) user experience and operability: in revit, the component id has a unique identification role, so the system checking adopts the method of error component id location, accurate to the id of each component under check, the corresponding error type, and detailed checking results. the visual checking report and real-time update function provided by the system enable users to quickly locate problem components, significantly improving the work efficiency of inspectors and the quality of bim models. (cid:129) model correctness: the checkers modify the model component parameters and attributes by checking the results, and the num- ber of model problems is updated. based on the checking report, the model was gradually modified and improved, and the error rate of the model was reduced from the original 15.95% to 0%. the bim model was completely correct and complied with all the rules.  asce 04024049-15 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. conclusion bim technology has brought strong technical support to the infor- mation management of construction projects and promoted the deep integration of engineering design and information technology. normative modeling is the basis to ensure the quality of informa- tion models. due to the low standardization degree of existing bim models and the low efficiency and poor accuracy of manual check- ing methods, the main purposes of this study are to improve the modeling correctness of bim models, develop an automated bim model quality checking system, and enhance the standardization level of bim models. focusing on this purpose, this study proposed a method of bim model quality conformance checking based on knowledge graph technology, which has certain innovation and practicability. this study has carried out the following: (cid:129) the research framework for the bim model quality compliance checking system based on knowledge graph was established. (cid:129) based on bim standards, the text was structured and classified, and rules were established to construct knowledge graph. the dynamic rule knowledge base was developed based on c# and sql, which breaks the limitation of hard coding and realizes the dynamic management of bim standards. (cid:129) a bim model quality checking system for the revit platform was developed using c# language to realize automatic checking and quality assessment of bim model components. (cid:129) through the case application of a xuzhou subway bim model, the feasibility and practicability of the developed system were verified. the results showed that the system can automatically check and generate reports, accurately find the problems ex- isting in the naming, materials, parameters, and rationality of components in a short time, and provide targeted improvement measures. the main contributions of this paper are as follows: firstly, knowledge graph technology provides a structured method to re- present and store the knowledge in the bim modeling standard field, which improves the searchability and understandability of knowledge and facilitates the sharing and reuse of knowledge. secondly, compared with the traditional manual checking method, the compliance checking of bim models can be carried out by converting specifications into computer-recognizable language through knowledge graph technology, which can reduce the sub- jectivity of checks, improve the efficiency, accuracy, and digitiza- tion level of compliance checking, and enable modelers to create bim models efficiently and correctly. thirdly, the developed sys- tem can customize the rule base according to the bim standards of different enterprises, apply it to different bim projects to check the model, and propose modification suggestions to realize standard- ized modeling and improve the work efficiency of bim designers. however, the study had some limitations. first, as time goes by, bim modeling standards and regulations are constantly up- dated, and the complexity of texts will affect whether they can be converted into formable rules. therefore, higher technical re- quirements are put forward for the maintenance and update of the knowledge rule base. secondly, because the bim software used by various enterprises is not uniform and is affected by existing com- prehensive factors (cost, time, and so on), the plug-in developed is only used for revit software, and the checking function is limited to the check of the name, material, parameters, and others, and the reasoning of complex spatial relationships requires more in-depth research. therefore, future research work will be devoted to the follow- ing aspects: (1) studying how to realize the check of bim models in different formats exported by different software, improve the checking function of bim models, and improve the stability of algorithms; and (2) investigating how to automatically modify the properties or parameters of noncompliant components based on rules and checking reports. future research will strive to create a more intelligent bim model quality compliance checking system to provide support and guarantee for the successful implementation and management of construction projects. data availability statement some or all data, models, or code generated or used during the study are proprietary or confidential in nature and may only be provided with restrictions. acknowledgments the authors sincerely acknowledge the editors and anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments and constructive sugges- tions, which considerably improved the exposition of this work. the authors also gratefully acknowledge those who provided data and suggestions. this work was funded by the graduate in- novation program of china university of mining and technology (project no. 2023wljcrczl064), the postgraduate research & practice innovation program of jiangsu province (project no. the national natural science foundation of kycx23_2878), china (grant no. 72171224), and the humanities and social sciences foundation of chinas education ministry (grant no. 19yjazh122). references bao, q., j. zhou, y. zhao, x. li, s. tao, and p. duan. 2022. developing a rule-based dynamic safety checking method for enhancing construc- tion safety. sustainability 14 (21): 14130. https://doi.org/10.3390 /su142114130. beach, t. h., y. rezgui, h. li, and t. kasim. 2015. a rule-based seman- tic approach for automated regulatory compliance in the construction sector. expert syst. appl. 42 (12): 52195231. https://doi.org/10.1016 /j.eswa.2015.02.029. bloch, t., and r. sacks. 2020. clustering information types for semantic enrichment of building information models to support automated code compliance checking. j. comput. civ. eng. 34 (6): 04020040. https:// doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000922. china architectural design institute. 2016. chinese academy of sciences bim standard seriesnaming rules. beijing: china architectural design institute. choi, c. h., and j. lee. 2022. a bim-based quality inspection system prototype for temporary construction works. buildings 12 (11): 1931. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings12111931. choi, j., j. choi, and i. kim. 2014. development of bim-based evacua- tion regulation checking system for high-rise and complex buildings. autom. constr. 46 (oct): 3849. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2013 .12.005. chowdhary, k., and k. chowdhary. 2020. natural language processing. intelligence, 603649. draper, ut: in fundamentals of artificial pluralsight. deng, h., y. xu, y. deng, and j. lin. 2022. transforming knowledge management in the construction industry through information and com- munications technology: a 15-year review. autom. constr. 142 (oct): 104530. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2022.104530. eastman, c., j.-m. lee, y.-s. jeong, and j.-k. lee. 2009. automatic rule-based checking of building designs. autom. constr. 18 (8): 10111033. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2009.07.002.  asce 04024049-16 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. esteves, j., and r. c. joseph. 2008. a comprehensive framework for the assessment of egovernment projects. gov. inf. q. 25 (1): 118132. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.giq.2007.04.009. fan, s.-l., h.-l. chi, and p.-q. pan. 2019. rule checking interface development between building information model and end user. autom. constr. 105 (sep): 102842. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2019.102842. fenves, s. j. 1966. tabular decision logic for structural design. j. struct. div. 92 (6): 473490. https://doi.org/10.1061/jsdeag.0001567. guo, d., e. onstein, and a. d. la rosa. 2021. a semantic approach for automated rule compliance checking in construction industry. ieee access 9 (aug): 129648129660. https://doi.org/10.1109/access .2021.3108226. ismail, a. s., k. n. ali, and n. a. iahad. 2017. a review on bim-based automated code compliance checking system. in proc., 2017 int. conf. on research and innovation in information systems (icriis). london: intechopen limited. jouve, d., y. amghar, b. chabbat, and j.-m. pinon. 2003. conceptual framework for document semantic modelling: an application to document and knowledge management in the legal domain. data knowl. eng. 46 (3): 345375. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0169-023x(03) 00046-6. koo, b., and b. shin. 2018. applying novelty detection to identify model element to ifc class misclassifications on architectural and infra- structure building information models. j. comput. des. eng. 5 (4): 391400. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcde.2018.03.002. li, x., d. yang, j. yuan, a. donkers, and x. liu. 2022. bim-enabled semantic web for automated safety checks in subway construction. autom. constr. 141 (sep): 104454. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2022.104454. liebich, t., j. wix, and z. qi. 2004. speeding-up the submission process, the singapore e-plan checking project offers automatic plan checking based on ifc, 245252. reston, va: asce. liu, b., x. wang, p. liu, s. li, q. fu, and y. chai. 2021. unikg: a unified interoperable knowledge graph database system. in proc., ieee 37th int. conf. on data engineering (icde). new york: ieee. luo, h., and p. gong. 2015. a bim-based code compliance checking process of deep foundation construction plans. j. intell. rob. syst. 79 (aug): 549576. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10846-014-0120-z. martins, j. p., and a. monteiro. 2013. lica: a bim based automated code-checking application for water distribution systems. autom. constr. 29 (jan): 1223. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2012.08.008. ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples repub- lic of china. 2016. unified standard for the application of building in- formation models. gb/t51212-2016. beijing: ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china. ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples repub- lic of china. 2017a. building information model construction applica- tion standard. gb/t51235-2017. beijing: ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china. ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples repub- lic of china. 2017b. standard for classification and coding of building information model. gb/t51269-2017. beijing: ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china. ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples repub- lic of china. 2018. standard for the design and delivery of building information model. gb/t51301-2018. beijing: ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china. ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china. 2021. building information model storage standard. gb/t51447-2021. beijing: ministry of housing and urban-rural development of the peoples republic of china. nawari, n. o. 2019. a generalized adaptive framework (gaf) for auto- mating code compliance checking. buildings 9 (4): 86. https://doi.org /10.3390/buildings9040086. pauwels, p., r. de meyer, and j. van campenhout. 2010. interoper- ability for the design and construction industry through semantic web technology. in proc., int. conf. on semantic and digital media technologies. berlin: springer. peng, j., and x. liu. 2023. automated code compliance checking research based on bim and knowledge graph. sci. rep. 13 (1): 7065. https://doi .org/10.1038/s41598-023-34342-1. salama, d. m., and n. m. el-gohary. 2016. semantic text classifica- tion for supporting automated compliance checking in construction. j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (1): 04014106. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce) cp.1943-5487.0000301. shen, q., s. wu, y. deng, h. deng, and j. c. cheng. 2022. bim-based dynamic construction safety rule checking using ontology and natural language processing. buildings 12 (5): 564. https://doi.org/10.3390 /buildings12050564. solihin, w., j. dimyadi, y.-c. lee, c. eastman, and r. amor. 2017. the critical role of accessible data for bim-based automated rule checking systems. in proc., joint conf. on computing in construction (jc3). edinburgh, uk: heriot-watt univ. https://doi.org/10.24928/jc3-2017 /0161. solihin, w., j. dimyadi, y.-c. lee, c. eastman, and r. amor. 2020. simplified schema queries for supporting bim-based rule-checking applications. autom. constr. 117 (sep): 103248. https://doi.org/10 .1016/j.autcon.2020.103248. solihin, w., and c. m. eastman. 2016. a knowledge representation ap- proach in bim rule requirement analysis using the conceptual graph. j. inf. technol. constr. 21 (jun): 370401. sun, h., and i. kim. 2022. automated checking system for modular bim objects. j. civ. eng. manage. 28 (7): 554563. https://doi.org/10.3846 /jcem.2022.17230. wang, x., and n. el-gohary. 2022. deep learning-based relation extrac- tion from construction safety regulations for automated field compli- ance checking. in proc., construction research congress 2022. reston, va: asce. wang, y., l. zhang, h. yu, and r. l. tiong. 2022. detecting logical re- lationships in mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (mep) systems with bim using graph matching. adv. eng. inf. 54 (oct): 101770. https://doi .org/10.1016/j.aei.2022.101770. wangara, j. 2018. quality management in bim: use of solibri model checker and cobim guidelines for bim quality validation. bachelors thesis, dept. of engineering, helsinki metropolia univ. of applied sciences. xie, x., j. zhou, x. fu, r. zhang, h. zhu, and q. bao. 2022. automated rule checking for mep systems based on bim and kbms. buildings 12 (7): 934. https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings12070934. yan, j., c. wang, w. cheng, m. gao, and a. zhou. 2018. a retrospective of knowledge graphs. front. comput. sci. 12 (feb): 5574. https://doi .org/10.1007/s11704-016-5228-9. yang, m., q. zhao, l. zhu, h. meng, k. chen, z. li, and x. hei. 2023. semi-automatic representation of design code based on knowledge graph for automated compliance checking. comput. ind. 150 (sep): 103945. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2023.103945. zhang, j., and n. m. el-gohary. 2016. semantic nlp-based information extraction from construction regulatory documents for automated com- pliance checking. j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (2): 04015014. https://doi .org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000346. zhang, j., and n. m. el-gohary. 2017. integrating semantic nlp and logic reasoning into a unified system for fully-automated code checking. autom. constr. 73 (jan): 4557. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016 .08.027. zhang, r., and n. el-gohary. 2021. a deep neural network-based method for deep information extraction using transfer learning strategies to support automated compliance checking. autom. constr. 132 (dec): 103834. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103834. zhang, s., f. boukamp, and j. teizer. 2015. ontology-based semantic modeling of construction safety knowledge: towards automated safety planning for job hazard analysis (jha). autom. constr. 52 (apr): 2941. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2015.02.005. zhou, p., and n. el-gohary. 2017. ontology-based automated information extraction from building energy conservation codes. autom. constr. 74 (feb): 103117. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.09.004.  asce 04024049-17 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2025, 39(1): 04024049 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/28/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved.

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page1_img1.png
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page1_img2.png
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page1_img3.png
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page4_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page5_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page5_img2.png
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page8_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page9_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page9_img2.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page10_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page10_img2.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page11_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page11_img2.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page12_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page13_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page14_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page15_img1.jpeg
S. Zhu et al. 2024_page15_img2.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page1_img3.png --- check for updates --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page4_img1.jpeg --- step 1 rule interpretation step 2 model preparation bim a building information knowledge . jl extraction sv, revitap sql step 3 rule execution sau rule knowledge ety eee ioualty icompliance checking system naming check material check step 4 o a parameter check - checking report rationality check --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page5_img1.jpeg --- target object modal word logical relation word determiner 4.3.6 con nel chinese field name, code, datasoe , data format, unit of measurement, range, and constraints. gbt5s1301-2018 3.2. ce coding sts shall include table code, large class code, middle class code, small class code and fine class code. gbt51269-2017 --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page5_img2.png --- classification entity attributes parameter yz sf sy structural beam type pluming floor material thickness duct dimensions electrical pipe location diameter --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page8_img1.jpeg --- rain water 5 power . i, pa won i... atern ee, fa ye fa he 4, a an hy ae , sey ie anise, net lightning f tee naspa. tog nae rm protec... oe et ar chitectural ae on raspartot design brie. ue cay at sh brine . ae , roof . thy oh . tue ae x lie ra electrical a . z removal i sslan haspartot a zy ha... 9 balcony e - ce . ir ooilare building code b, hvac system % ae design oe -oncrete ps - retof tf structural 4 aw design he re supply and - 7 bd drainage system vos bs ee ae u heating system 4 fle. . 2 se drainage foundat water system oundat... supply , steel --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page9_img1.jpeg --- filter get get the type and value of familysymbol familylnstance parameters the parameter window roof . . . i element.parameters dimension location filteredelementcollector beam uns a familyinstance element.getparameters o i level color i builtinparameter parameterid pipe ceiling tt element.getparameters cable string name name material ramp stair t 688 a element.lookupparameter , --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page9_img2.jpeg --- select bim model target components access rule knowledge base conduct quality check . no checking completed yes view report yes follow the rules no non-compliance elements yes - modifying element properties oe manually ee no no . ending the checking process yes --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page10_img1.jpeg --- brrord cheecture tracice shee spar ase annotate anahe maing a bile cofabaute vem manige addins aualcy compliance lbecbng moy ae a 4 . . rules faraneter rules rationality rules v ll kaning rules materia rulez paraneter rules rationslity rules profession code elewent mile property degree ford naamieg rule control box bees , . oe rn he we eo aa fer the os va woe ees thee nueber seanie noe ree am s isd naming wale . control box wy s3ource gg es a fee v co e8ource chinese aaa fs dacwe fre stand . . i profession wee vente . eae me refmerion ar ite tare fr a code boete cue vee behetet unte add vo aa oe code 4 oe cree oes bees becta. cas. vader neat fae de hmn fae bows as eet pte add nt eluoment tose we enlment ori doe tear feito ce tay eet nae delete 1 , cree se pas lead degree vord pote. rr re sr pagren ford 0 foie eb fan oe www delete ve wes reget ge matt smanieg rule firedog, dodo leap cca vane a dt kaning, tule tos by p ne ea on import wd menge diese ude beet descripinen fert thors tan wet ens ve ee red details feta cae hte wasp ena nye te eee ve bee tere a export . on i ee tere enasple aeaktetcal alice o , an a a export bre fo feeg g re be ties ate sae oe ware tance te terse bed tare ol pode jane tete pyrat lene vw tt ok cane og cancel ok ancel --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page10_img2.jpeg --- a pate, tore . peehr nn owa elementld tee 7 protessionio name meee eet system prafessonld mee earthy j es u aan i aoe elementid yo . . cres . rt. ral me cme nee hlement name - ae oo iba ws in ce art mm - . . ee standardid elementhd tat ee ope fate . in te fee wt a - name 4 by are ae o sopot supe edal pos professnonil ee voce tt . oe . te . ar ae 4 im ae ee flementid . pl onvels i ane er sd name elernentlho ce in name ce . ae . , prof a ne oe matenal mapping woe o- rofessondp eee iv reo ma ee sa tatts uu pe ae . yy a standardld te te er ee standardio professionid we es ef oe ty . , wi or ea source , hement an et at 4 plementil a oe nore in fy ara ae a ae o h name o , , os oe wf ww wel name a a fe lie - - ry - an re se . a woe aos professonid a standardid be oun rok rian coree ro asn te professionio aa elementid mt tae en 3 pstmt at rh ren the ega corda t nuarrves - fl poesty i aac hep hit ral vent l protessonil ase toe 240 oy systentl pis awe clementily ve in me eaatt . vy en spatial scope soe ot er ye a camponent connechoans 97 wp flee mo pann - - hement eoyte any standardid name ir oe prafessionlo professionil 2 tt --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page11_img1.jpeg --- architecture stracture steel systems insert annotete analyze massing site collabarate vi arctutecture structure steel systems insert annotate analyze maseng site cullaborate 5 r os l a 55 lub fe a o luli suita naming there bates al heeepararroter hes haticmaling crk oo ee king hepet statchst baar heb ateng oe bk mac neta beck rat aly eb or merde rep oat starutharst ma cager pe earch hoan t starafatl ya regal gtice mena mesyult mt , architecture structural pluming mechanical electrical other architecture structural pluming mechanical electrical other select the components select the components architecture walls curtain walls floors roofs architecture walls curtain walls floors roofs - doors windows all elements doors windows all elements select the checking procedures material color material mapping material name start start cancel cancel architecture steucture steel systems insert annotate analyze massing site collaborate architecture structure steel systerns insert. annotate analyze massing site collaborate vi e -o- i luli eg a 4 lu standart nanming chece maternal chec parameter check phatorelity oreck ceres ken report standard naming oaeck mlaterid 0 heck parameter check rationality cleese pl oe kang repent starman ce lane k fesult stanetard oe feesult r architecture structural pluming mechanical electrical other architecture structural pluming mechanical electrical other select the components select the components architecture walls curtain wails floors roofs architecture walls curtain walls floors roofs doors windows all elements doors windows all elements select the checking procedures select the checking procedures parameter consistency parameter integrity parameter accuracy model integrity modeling method component connection spatial range start start cancel cancel --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page11_img2.jpeg --- eal s1 ee ee eee ac et --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page12_img1.jpeg --- r 7 ast to a 7 naming rules material rules parameter rules rationality rules oq ye lt number source profession family namingrule example description a control box . . external wall is bim delivery veles for suzhou wetre line arehitecture walt ltvpe name. - thickness. external wal1-300 ere ms , name, 300 1s thicl 2 bim delivery rcles for nuzhou metre line 6 arecnitecture floor .ivpe name. - thickness. floor 106 se thie . a . 5 le fire door- single fire coor . 3 bim delivery rales for muzhnu wetro line 6 architecture doors tepe name vogel ue eee eens jel 4 edit ose . . eliding window is vpe na lac 7 s ng wirdaw-hal. - - 4 bim delivery rales for nuzheu metra line 6 architecture zindows tepe name. -lecation. lading windos fel names hall level j5lee, level-10001800 . - ana location, 1000 1800 con ent mame. - chear wall 1s tvpe 3 bim delivery rules for nuzkow metre line 6 structural yall . ompenes . ame. shear wall-300 -. ws pe ff add thickness. 300 15 tthicane comgeorent name structural floor i 6 bim delivery rules far nauzkow vetro line 6 structural flear compenest ane struetural flear-150 u et ral floor 3 thicaness mame. inn ais . tri 7 bim delivery rules for nuzkou metro line structural bean -trpe name section size kl1-300 00 kle is trpe name delete hoe ke 600 is section 4 5 bim delivery rules for nughou wetre line structural column tipe ame see tlc nize ke1-400 400 kel a tepe aes bek 400 as section 3 my ds og . oo. - enclosure -tvpe namel-seetion size borec pile is tvpe m delivery rales for nuzhou metro 6 structura . bere rle- - bim delivery rules for nuzhe ro line 6 structural foundation diameter bored pile-00 300 is section 54 import 1g bim delivery rules for mushou wetro line mechanical air pipe trpe name jarge system air cuct large system air cut tepe name tl bim delivery rales for mushou wetre line mechanical air valve trpe name. exhaust fan exhazet tan 12 bim delivery roles for nuzkou metro line 6 mechanical eqaipoent tepe name, electric laterlocking electric leterlocad a export alr valve valve le type ne my ede - oo - . . . . trocgh cable trav- trougs canle traychor 3 bim delivery rzles for nuzhou metro line 6 electrical cadle bridge wt pe rane ys . horizontal bend bend 15 type nai va nea re me - ma. lighting mp - bole, . distrisution sox iw rules statistic quantity 65 ok cancel a - . . roof, a naming rules material rules parameter rules rationality rules qq ava 1 t number source profession element . rgb color a control box 1 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 architecture solid brick 150, 150, 1503 ticsl z bim delivery rules for xuzhou metre line 6 architecture aerated concrete block 192, 192, 192 3 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metre line 6 architecture off-wall 177, 200, 234 4 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 architecture fireproof partition wall 170, 45, 42 ff . 5 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 architecture tie column 255, 128, 0 4 edit , 6 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metra line 6 structural reinforced concrete wall 128, 128, 128 7 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 structural beam o. 128, 0 8 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metre line 6 structural floor 128, 128, 128 9 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 structural structural column 255, 128, 0 - add 1a bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 structural steel support 105, 77, 58 , ll bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 structural bored pile 192, 192, 192 12 -bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 electrical dynamic lighting 153, 133, 76 delet 13 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 electrical communication 255, 127, 127 elete 14 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 electrical automatic alarm 255, 127, 223 . 15 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 electrical integrated menitoring 204, 0, 51 16 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 electrical access control 201. 0, 153 4, i rt 17 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 mechanical smoke exhaust pipe 255, 255, 128 po 18 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 mechanical air supply duct 0, 0. 255 19 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 mechanical return air pipe 255. 0, 255 20 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 mechanical new air duct 0, 255, 0 export al bim delivery rules for xuzhou metre line 6 mechanical pressurized air supply 255, 0. q , 22 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metre line 6 mechanical condensing tube 255, 0, 255 23 bim delivery rules for xuzhou metro line 6 mechanical refrigerant pipe 128, 64. 64 vv rules statistic quantity 56 ok cancel --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page13_img1.jpeg --- naning rules material rules parameter rules rationality rules ee a q oy tl number source profession checkingcontent element parameter parameterrule a control box bim celivery rules for . parameter . , check that tne parameters of the 1 -. . aarenitecture separation wall dimension . nuzhou metro line 6 consistency component are set identically bim delivers rules for parameter . . spatial check that the parameters of the 2 - architecture separation wall . . nuzhou metro line 6 consistency orientation component are set identically a bim celiver- rules for , parameter . . . check that the parameters of tne f edit 3 architecture separation wail material . nuzhou wetro line 6 consistency component are set identically bim celivery rules for parameter . , concrete check that the parameters of the 4 to. arenitecture separation wall f nuzhou metro line 6 consistency strength component are set identically . check whether this field exists add . bim celivery rules for . wee . . 5 oo architecture parameter integrity separation wail dimension 1t cannot pe default or by nuzhou metro line 6 - catezory bim del 1 f spatial check whether this field exists . m delivery rules for . spatia nee - . 6 oo. architecture parameter integrity separation vail it cannot be default or by delete mughou metro line 6 orientation category . - check whether this field exists bim celivery rules for . . . . os - oo. met l 6 architecture parameter integrity separation wall material lit cannot be default or by muznou metro line . category 1 - import la. check whether this freid exists bim celivery rules for . . . concrete eee - i. architecture parameter integrity separation wall lit cannot be default or by muzhnou metro line 6 strength . category y e rt bim celivery rules for . , check whether the freid meets xpo 9 4 architecture parameter accuracy separation wall dimensian nuzhou metro line 6 requlrements bim celiver rules for . . spatial check whether the field meets 1 10 soenae maren arcnitecture parameter accuracy separation wall inneae . omens vv rules statistic quantity 62 ok cancel r- io i naming rules material rules parameter rules rationality rules q rr bt number source checkingcontent profession element property degreeword comparativeford value a control box surlding walls. off- naghou metro line touncations, coor, findews. and biw delivery ruler for 2 2patial ran architectur vali top elevation null nalt l plate potter 5 f 1 nuzkeu vetro line 6 pavie see i cp ares peate edit . bim gelivery coles for - . lo . ws . - amet vetra line bim celivery rules for . 4 , . . as . . - 4 ruria. metra line 6 spatla. ranke architecture coor bottog elevation nua. nel ting surface ele. add . bim celivery roles for a . lo. . .. . bs , . ipatial range architecture roon text text neight thoule te between 10f 20h 3 a vweceling rethed architecture rap mika mugs mult floor function mughou metro line 6 d biv celivery rules for all, concrete wall biv cee er rile i wedel integsrit structural . nere wee mull mull null muds rughos metro line 6 ander platforn plate. - bim celivers rules for woe oa - . oars ee feconeas we . . . - 4 import s oo . . modeling method etroctural beac. cecnercting oeac soll soil null nean fonetion bnd foundation seam 4 bim celivers rele for soatias sy . a st at sould o03 q spatial range structural itair step eidth thoul be . on - bin celivery rules for - - . lo aoe. export iv woo . . npatia. ranre structural stair etep relent rnocld ce a. isa ruthos metro line biw delivery roles for compenest streeteral selec coat ae qe woes nuzhou metra line 6 commection ween eee a oes vv rules statistic quantity 43 ok cancel --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page14_img1.jpeg --- iii 6architecture structure steel systems insert annotate analyze massingsite collaborate view manage add-ins qua o- ult standard naming check material check parameter check rationality check jchecking report standard complianc result architecture structural pluming mechanical electrical other checki c liance with number profession code famliy elementnameformer flementid checkingrange eckink comp tiance non-compliancedetails content therules architecture a3 tall internal wall-3od 149556 naming name yer nault 2 architecture a fall raternal wall-300 la3t47 naming name yes null 3 architecture 4 fall woterntl wall-300 po3747 nisming nae yeu sali architecture 4 hall snternal wall-300 124566 naming name yes nal i architecture a3 wall tnternal wall-god 145278 naming name ves salt ti architecture 4 kall yatermal wa 1-300 14604 nambng nane ves sali sam oes not comply 1 the rules tspe namet- v architecture 3 hall external vail 1081662 naming name no naming does not pre ats te rules type sam 8 architecture a fall external sal 1928085 naming name xo ming dees net canpey with tie noless tipe same, taichness. naming dees not comply vith the rules type name - q architecture 4 fall external wail 1081661 naming nane no emng eeee aad sb brab es spe ale juthickness, . . naming does net compiz vith the roles type namel- 1o architecture 4 all external vail 1q2e278 maming mare no mang ace . ace meee pe san ltriczness, naming does not comply eith the roles livpe namel- archives ture a fall external sal 10t6o73 naming name ao ig gees a , - 7f pe sees jtarennens. 12 architecture a wall extersal vall 1895562 naming nane xo parade o83 hot ee wits me roles type same, neming dees net comply ith the roles type samel- 13 architecture a all external vail 1os4573 naming name no verang gees hese em with a less tipe sam thickness, . . nee . . naming does net comply with the rules livpe name - 14 argchitee ture 4 fall external sail 1454064 naming nane xo - - jtiichness. a dees not comply sith the rules type name-- 13 architecture 4 all extersal va.l 1086435 naming name na emng gees n tate 4 pees eebr sane lthickness, number of questions 79 --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page15_img1.jpeg --- famity escalator load... is ome type c-escatator v duplicate... rename... r ype parameters parameter value % architecture structural pluming mechanical electrical other constraints s default elevation 0.000 7 of jv 3 checking compl ianceith j - inueber profession fanliy element naweforwer element id checking range heck ing compt lance 1 th non compliance details ad cantent the ruten i i a an ag utes olaae mathie ibase meric eltl en net mane nee samigy sues on. cum. aati tue pies. toue nene os - a 4 nee, ttt et sdp moe wha mas elts ene ae nastadlaet ane co matlii slums oh compl alt foe ple soom dates a l t meenas syace tmasise sram tess als lace oon samiog ane sane naming seer onctocenp. gata the rides tope nene 1 fit cass spa e martes spar magn ate vey 4c nate ane nee nasice duetopet sens sity tie rp des toue nane a . . we r roe ne te nd elit bere nand nave me sapo g der pat ren art tae rg be tue nae ye tes ppa ml te abe mel eres satie none sea same doe, touet. a.tl feeb lel toe nae 1 i hi ey mda ts bat hae tat bo ts doula sani ane mn nactae dee not cemp. .to fae fates toye mane of 1 13 other escalator crerccalator m35785 naning nage no naning does not comply with the roles tepe name nunber of questions 19 --- text from s. zhu et al. 2024_page15_img2.jpeg --- bgigme architecture structure steel systems insert. annotate analyze massing site collaborate view manage add-ins quality compliance checking modify floors ae select properties clipboard seometry modify view measure create mode shape editing warning modify floors activate dimensions properties tz x f r cos . family system family floor - f type floar-100 ouplicate... c architecture structural pluming nechanical flectrical other rename... wa t ry type parameters parameter value sumber profession famliy element name flement checking compliance with non complinnce details construction t former ip range therules etiag teal beast net es lt tuba. seer te sal structure edit... s ba berust ofa beaz geaz boo 20 2l0g1a7 0 material er null cy structural seax gee ao it clasi9 0 parateter yee mull braet opal sera nae ed lor tung baryrealit se ra q unclean ntenor d a etrcrtirel 9 bees eer g syargrl watersal te nall graphics - prrusturan heox seas ssw fay slap mel 0 pasageres yee mell coarse scale fill pattern solid fill 5 serustural bean dear bote b00 elsebol fanionality yer null . 4 beet gal fleas hews seen a matyi die ait cumple vita tw pale cltope aew. tithe wee coarse scale fill color bi black a freustural flags floor routine waressal ver ull te i etrsctural fleer flrer simemie paroxeter yes null svenahs and finishes . . prost ral flog tlaer sate bars alyt se. frageew foie we tion ca pipet steue bare mabestya whigor day esp la strostural pleas floss 10 pasay sarid we the cared thicneecc re narccsictest with the floer thicncecd garanster . . 2 la etrestural floar floor - 100 1los5694 0 parage toy np the caned thickest 1s incesspcteat with the floor thickness garaneter beat degestis yeti ert ic ls erpurtoral tail fleod cil baila watesial se tae material odner net compl oaith the ralecoroh qds, i 181 i pea tices p uo etpetaal al tliend al ali rater at reagan toch wn tin om thie absorptance 0.100000 21 strorteural tall fliod iil doe bse neti so natiag dees soto cecply virv rye giles tege sage thicksest roughness 1 a stovatvaal fall flood sald cease meter cal may top meberiak ces mat comb aith the pales rue pis. d028 iss ck etrostural tall flesd sill cvge35r ratronalst ne ceaponest comectben canviict type image v typ g wanat de these prage tes do p wuaber of questions 84 preview ok cancel apply
