==== TEXT ====
semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications: dealing with complex extraction tasks peng zhou1 and nora el-gohary2 abstract: automated specification energy compliance checking aims to check the compliance of building designs captured in building information models (bims) with energy requirements from contract specifications. however, automated extraction of requirements from specifications to support automated compliance checking is challenging because of the text complexities of the specifications, including hierarchically complex text structures, incomplete sentence structures, and a variety of levels of development (lods). to address this challenge, this paper proposes a semantic information extraction method to extract building energy requirements automatically from spec- ifications. specifically, three new submethods are proposed to deal with these complexities: a domain-specific text splitting and stitching method, an incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction method, and a detail-aware lod extraction method. the proposed information extraction method was tested in extracting thermal-insulation and lighting-power requirements from masterformat specifica- tions. a performance of 96.8% recall and 97.6% precision was achieved on the testing data, which indicates the effectiveness of the proposed method. doi: 10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0001008.  2022 american society of civil engineers. author keywords: information extraction; ontology; automated compliance checking; contract specifications. introduction specification energy compliance checking aims to help construc- tion projects comply with energy requirements in contract spec- ifications for achieving building energy efficiency. contract specifications prescribe owner requirements that are in addition to the regulatory requirements in the codes. therefore, specifica- tion checking is essential for meeting the contractual obligations for the project. however, manual compliance checking is time- consuming. thus there is a need for automated approaches to check the compliance of building designs, represented in building information models (bims), with energy requirements in specifi- cations (amor and dimyadi 2021). the most difficult component in automated compliance check- ing (acc) is automated requirement extraction: automatically extracting the requirements from the text and representing these requirements in the form of computer-processable rules. a signifi- cant number of efforts have been undertaken in the area of acc. these efforts have achieved different levels of automation in re- quirement extraction: little or minimal, semi, or full automation. many efforts have reached little or minimal automation. for exam- ple, a large number of research efforts (e.g., sydora and stroulia 2020; nawari 2020; kim et al. 2019; zhou et al. 2018; solihin and eastman 2016; dimyadi et al. 2016; preidel and borrmann 2015; cheng and das 2014; choi et al. 2014; qi et al. 2014; 1assistant professor, school of management science and engineering, central univ. of finance and economics, 39 xue yuan south rd., beijing 100081, china. orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4913-6254 2associate professor, dept. of civil and environmental engineering, univ. of illinois at urbana-champaign, 205 n. mathews ave., urbana, il 61801 (corresponding author). email: gohary@illinois.edu note. this manuscript was submitted on june 24, 2021; approved on october 27, 2021; published online on july 6, 2022. discussion period open until december 6, 2022; separate discussions must be submitted for individual papers. this paper is part of the journal of computing in civil engineering,  asce, issn 0887-3801. zhong et al. 2012; nawari 2012; pauwels et al. 2011; tan et al. 2010) and software tools [e.g., corenet (khemlani 2005), solibri model checker (smc 2009), smartreview (2021), and comcheck/rescheck (usdoe 2018)] require manual extraction of requirements from text, which is time-consuming and unscal- able. few efforts achieved a level of semiautomation. for exam- ple, huler et al. (2021), lal and gnaydn (2017), and beach et al. (2015) semiautomatically extracted requirements from text that is annotated with predefined tags. however, the annotation itself requires substantial manual effort. fully automated efforts, on the other hand, are very limited. for example, zhang and el-gohary (2013, 2017) and zhou and el-gohary (2017) pro- posed semantic information extraction (ie) methods to extract requirements automatically from the international building code and the international energy conservation code, respectively. however, despite their contributions, their methods cannot ad- dress the text complexities in specifications. compared with ie from building and energy codes, automated ie from specifications faces three new challenging text complex- ities: hierarchically complex text structures, incomplete sentence structures, and a variety of levels of development (lods). first, text in specifications usually is organized in a more complexwider and deepertext hierarchy. for example, a section in the specifi- cations may contain many articles, in which each article contains many paragraphs, each paragraph contains multiple levels of sub- paragraphs, and each subparagraph contains multiple requirements. second, requirements in the specifications usually are represented in short phrases, rather than complete sentences. such incomplete sentence structures hinder the ability to capture the dependency be- tween the semantic information in the text. such dependency infor- mation helps reduce text ambiguities and enhance the extraction performance. third, requirements in specifications may correspond to different bim lods. extraction of requirements that go beyond the required lod may result in unnecessary processing efforts and potential compliance checking errors.  asce 04022025-1 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. to address these text complexities, this paper proposes a semantic ie method to extract building energy requirements auto- matically from contract specifications. the proposed method is novel in four main ways. first, it addresses a less explored area in the literature, which is automated deep ie from specifications. in contrast to shallow extraction, deep extraction can extract all information that describes a regulatory requirement. second, a domain-specific text splitting and stitching method is proposed to simplify the hierarchically complex text structures automati- cally using a regular expressions-based pattern-matching tech- nique. third, an incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction method is proposed to capture dependency information from incomplete sentence structures to reduce text ambiguities. fourth, a detail-aware lod extraction method is proposed to automatically differentiate the lods of sentences based on ana- lyzing their grammatical moods using syntactic text features. background text characteristics of contract specifications different types of documents are written in different styles to convey information for different purposes. contract specifications are relatively well-organizedfollowing standardized text organi- zation and formattingand are written in a highly concise lan- guage to reduce verbiage. the masterformat is a hierarchical classification system developed by the construction specifica- tions institute (csi) and construction specifications canada (csc) for organizing project manuals (including contract speci- fications) (csi and csc 2014). specifications are divided into divisions, each division is broken down further into a number of sections, and each section consists of three parts: general, prod- ucts, and execution (csi and csc 2009, 2017). the text in each part is organized in a hierarchical structure, in which each part consists of at least one article, each article contains at least one paragraph, and each paragraph may contain zero, one, or multiple levels of subparagraphs. an illustrative example of an article is shown in fig. 1. sentence structures in contract specifications are different from those in energy codes in two ways. first, shorter and incomplete sen- tences are used in the specifications. a sentence usually is composed of one or multiple phrases. a phrase is a piece of text that is separated by a delimiter such as a comma, colon, or semicolon (such delimiters are the text features of incomplete sentence structures, which are called incompleteness features hereafter). second, two grammatical moodsimperative and indicativeare used to write sentences in specifications, whereas only the indicative mood is used in codes. article number and title 2.3 mineral-wool board insulation a. manufacturers: subject to compliance with requirements, provide products by one of the following: 1. fibrex insulations inc. 2. isolatek international. 3. owens corning. 4. roxul inc. 5. thermaber. paragraph number and title subparagraph number d. form mw-2 : foil-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim-polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 0.10 perm (5.75 x 10-9 g/pa x s x m2) when tested in accordance with astm e96; with maximum ame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 5, respectively, per astm e84. 1. minimum thermal resistivity (r) of 4.3 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in. (29.8 k x m/w) at mean temperature of 75 degrees f (24 degrees c). 2. nominal density of 4 lb/cu. ft. (64 kg/cu. m), types ia and ib, thermal resistivity of 4 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in. at 75 deg f (27.7 k x m/w at 24 deg c). article paragraph subparagraph fig. 1. example article in specifications. imperative sentences are featured by a verb that explicitly defines an action (called action verbs hereafter) as the beginning of a sen- tence, in which the subject of an imperative sentence (e.g., contractor) is implicit to improve conciseness and understandability. imperative sentences often are used to prescribe requirements related to the in- stallation of products or equipment (csi 2004; kalin et al. 2010), and these requirements correspond to a bim lod of 400 or above. an imperative sentence that contains a fabrication requirement, which is in lod 400 or above, is fabricate corners minimum 0.45 m  0.45 m (18 in.  18 in.) mitered and sealed as one piece. indicative sentences are featured by a modal verb (e.g., shall) that precedes the main verb of a sentence. the use of indicative sentences is minimized because they may result in unnecessary verbiage. contract specifications use a streamlined writing style, which is a writing technique recommended by csi to reduce verbiage and grammatical issues in writing specifications (csi 2004; kalin et al. 2010). using streamlined writing, paragraphs (including subpara- graphs) are written in a three-tuple format <topic, colon, content> in which the topic usually is a keyword or phrase that refers to the primary subject of a paragraph, the colon means shall, and the con- tent contains a number of sentences that prescribe detailed require- ments related to the topic. streamlined-written paragraphs have unique text capitalization features (e.g., the first letter of each word in the topic and the first letter of the first word in the content are capitalized). such capitalization features may be used to define text feature patterns. information extraction approaches there are two common ie approaches: machine learning-based and rule-based approaches (jurafsky and martin 2020; moens 2006; moreno et al. 2013). supervised and semisupervised machine learning-based approaches require human developers to annotate manually the text features and corresponding target information for a large set of training data, and applies machine-learning algo- rithms to learn the extraction rules automatically from the annotated training data. in comparison, rule-based approaches require human developers to define manually the patterns of the text features from a small set of representative data (called development data here- after) and develop a set of extraction rules based on the defined patterns. the features are syntactic [e.g., part-of-speech (pos) tags] and/or semantic features (e.g., ontology concepts), and the pat- terns commonly are defined using pattern-matching languages (e.g., regular expressions) (jurafsky and martin 2020). in this research, a rule-based approach was selected because of its perfor- mance. there is a need for an exceptionally high level of extraction performance to ensure sufficiently high performance in noncompli- ance detectionabout 85% recall or higher, with good precision. rule-based ie tends to achieve higher performance levels, especially for deep ie, because the human expertise usually results in more- accurate feature patterns (moens 2006; lee et al. 2019). zhou and el-gohary (2017) showed that rule-based ie is able to achieve a very high level of performanceover 95% recall and precision. semantic information extraction in construction domain information extraction efforts are limited in the construction do- main. example efforts using a rule-based approach include those of abuzir and abuzir (2002), who used lexicosyntactic features and document structure features [i.e., hypertext markup language (html) tags] to extract terms and their relations from web pages for constructing a thesaurus of civil engineering; al qady and kandil (2010), who used syntactic features (e.g., phrase segments)  asce 04022025-2 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. to extract concepts and relations from contract documents for en- hanced document management; and xu et al. (2021), who used lexical and syntactic features to extract domain knowledge ele- ments (i.e., noun or relation phrases) from safety accident reports for construction safety management. example efforts using a ma- chine learning-based approach include those of liu and el-gohary (2017), who extracted information entities that describe bridge de- ficiencies and maintenance actions from bridge inspection reports for improved bridge deterioration prediction; zhong et al. (2020), who extracted qualitative construction procedural constraints from construction quality codes; zhang and el-gohary (2021), who used transfer learning strategies for ie from multiple regulatory docu- ments; and xue and zhang (2021), who proposed an enhanced pos tagger for improved ie. a few efforts focused on ie from contract documents to support various applications. for example, lee et al. (2019) used a rule-based approach to extract risk clauses in terms of subject verbobject tuples from fdration internationale des ingnieurs- conseils (fidic) specifications for supporting international contract management. akanbi and zhang (2020) used a rule-based approach to extract design information in terms of six named entities (e.g., material names) from masterformat specifications for support- ing detailed wood construction cost estimation. moon et al. (2021) used a machine-learning approach to extract five named entities (e.g., organizations) from qatar road construction specifications for supporting construction specification review. despite their con- tributions, the aforementioned efforts focused only on shallow ie, which refers to the extraction of partial information from a sentence (zhang and el-gohary 2013; zhou and el-gohary 2017). in contrast, deep ie, which aims to extract all information expressed by a sen- tence based on a full analysis of the sentence (zhang and el-gohary 2013; zhou and el-gohary 2017), is required for acc. other efforts dealing with contract documents (e.g., hassan and le 2020; jeon et al. 2021) focused on text classification (tc), not ie. two main efforts used rule-based approaches for deep ie to sup- port acc. first, zhang and el-gohary (2013) proposed an ie method to extract design requirements from building codes to support automated building code checking. they used a building ontology to capture the semantic features in the building-code text, and developed a set of pattern-matching-based ie rules for the extraction. second, zhou and el-gohary (2017) proposed an ie method to extract energy requirements from energy codes to sup- port automated energy code checking. compared with the first effort, they used a more detailed ontology to improve the extraction performance. they also proposed a combination of methods to deal with long provisions, hierarchical sentences, and exceptions. knowledge gaps despite the contributions of the aforementioned efforts, there is a lack of methods that can deal with the following three text com- plexities that characterize contract specifications: hierarchically complex text structures, incomplete sentence structures, and the variety of lods. first, the text hierarchical structure in specifications is much deeper, wider, and more dynamic than the structure in en- ergy codes in previous efforts (zhou and el-gohary 2017). the hier- archical complexity of the energy code is on the sentence level. however, specifications exhibit paragraph-level complexity, which is more challenging: the text is hierarchically deep and wide, as well as dynamic. an article in the specifications may consist of dozens of paragraphs, each paragraph may consist of up to 10 levels of sub- paragraphs, and each level may consist of dozens of subparagraphs. in contrast, a provision in the international energy conservation code (iecc) usually has few levels of subprovisions, and each level has only several sentences. in addition, the paragraph-level complex- ities of specifications usually increase with project size. in contrast, different versions of the iecc tend to have similar complexity levels. thus, automatically simplifying the text hierarchical structure in specifications for better identification of target requirements is more challenging. second, previous efforts (zhang and el-gohary 2013; zhou and el-gohary 2017) did not address text with incomplete sentence structures, which, unlike in codes, is common in specifications. ie from text with complete sentence structures is relatively easier because complete sentence structures have regular grammatical pat- terns. the experimental results of zhou and el-gohary (2017) showed that regular grammatical patterns usually implied strong dependency relationships among the target information, which was sufficient to reduce most of the text ambiguities. text with incom- plete sentence structures, lacking such regular patterns, thus is likely to suffer from weak dependency relationships that are insuf- ficient to reduce ambiguities. thus, there is a need for methods to deal with incomplete sentence structures to reduce ambiguities. third, existing methods are not able to recognize and differen- tiate the lods of the information in the specifications. unlike codes in previous efforts (zhang and el-gohary 2013; zhou and el-gohary 2017), specifications contain a wider range of require- ments related to different lods, in which requirements in irrelevant lods are not related to checking of building energy design. for example, requirements in part 2 of masterformat specifications not only relate to design of building elements, but also include fabrications, mixes, and factory finishing for those building ele- ments (csi and csc 2009, 2017). extraction of requirements in irrelevant lods (i.e., information beyond the current or needed lod) may result in potential compliance checking errors. thus, there is a need for methods to correctly differentiate and identify requirements in the target lods. proposed semantic information extraction method for automated extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications to address the aforementioned knowledge gaps, a semantic ie method for automated extraction of building energy requirements from con- tract specifications is proposed. three text analytic methods are pro- posed and used to deal with the aforementioned text complexities. method 1: proposed domain-specific text splitting and stitching method a domain-specific text splitting and stitching method is proposed to simplify the hierarchically complex text structures in specifications prior to ie. the proposed method uses a regular expressions-based pattern-matching technique to recognize automatically the text features that signal splitting, and to split the text to the most gra- nular level. the proposed method includes two steps: splitting and stitching. first, each article is split to the lowest subparagraph level, with each resulting split text containing the text from a lowest-level subparagraph, each superlevel subparagraph, and the highest-level paragraph. each resulting split text then is stitched with the numbers and titles of the corresponding section and article. during splitting, the articles, paragraphs, and subparagraphs are recognized automatically based on the text feature patterns of their numbers and titles defined in the pageformat, in which such num- bers and titles signal the splitting. regular expressions are used to define the patterns. during stitching, the numbers and titles of sec- tions and articles are stitched for two reasons. first, the titles may  asce 04022025-3 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. section 07 21 00  building insulation article 2.3 mineral-wool board insulation compliance with to a. manufacturers: subject requirements, provide products by one of the following: 1. fibrex insulations inc. 2. isolatek international. 3. owens corning. 4. roxul inc. 5. thermaber. d. form mw-2: foil-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim- polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 5.75 x 10-12 kg/pa x s x m2 (0.10 perm) when tested in accordance with astm e96; with maximum ame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 5, respectively, per astm e84. 1. minimum thermal resistivity (r) of 29.8 k x m/w (4.3 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in.) at mean temperature of 24 degrees c (75 degrees f). 2. nominal density of 64 kg/cu. m (4 lb/cu. ft.), types ia and ib, thermal resistivity of 27.7 k x m/w at 24 deg c (4 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in. at 75 deg f). splitting and stitching section 07 21 00  building insulation 2.3 mineral-wool board insulation a. manufacturers: subject to compliance with requirements, provide products by one of the following: 1. fibrex insulations inc. split text section 07 21 00  building insulation 2.3 mineral-wool board insulation a. manufacturers: subject to compliance with requirements, provide products by one of the following: 5. thermaber. split text split text section 07 21 00  building insulation 2.3 mineral-wool board insulation d. form mw-2: foil-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim-polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 5.75 x 10- 1 2 k g/pa x s x m2 (0.10 perm) when tested in accordance with astm e96; with maximum ame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 5, respectively, per astm e84. 1. minimum thermal resistivity (r) of 29.8 k x m/w (4.3 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in.) at mean temperature of 24 degrees c (75 degrees f). split text section 07 21 00  building insulation 2.3 mineral-wool board insulation d. form mw-2: foil-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim-polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 5.75 x 10- 1 2 k g/pa x s x m2 (0.10 perm) when tested in accordance with astm e96; with maximum ame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 5, respectively, per astm e84. 2. nominal density of 64 kg/cu. m (4 lb/cu. ft.), types ia and ib, thermal resistivity of 27.7 k x m/w at 24 deg c (4 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in. at 75 deg f). fig. 2. example illustrating the proposed domain-specific text splitting and stitching method. contain target information that needs to be extracted. for example, the article title mineral wool board insulation con- tains the target information mineral wool board, which is an in- stance of the subject of a requirement. second, the numbers and titles are used as a reference for the requirement during the report- ing of the compliance checking results. as an example, fig. 2 shows the splitting and stitching for the article in fig. 1. method 2: proposed incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction method an incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction method is proposed to extract target information from text with incom- plete sentence structures. the proposed method adapts the sequen- tial dependency extraction method of zhou and el-gohary (2017) to text with incomplete sentence structures. the key of sequential dependency extraction is to use the dependency information among target information to assist in defining text feature patterns and developing extraction rules to reduce ambiguities and enhance extraction performance. the target information, in the context of acc, is the nine semantic information elements (sies) of acc (zhang and el-gohary 2013; zhou and el-gohary 2017): subject, subject restriction, compliance checking attribute, deontic operator indicator, quantitative relation, comparative relation, quantity value, quantity unit/reference, and quantity restriction. detailed definitions of these sies were given by zhang and el-gohary (2013) and zhou and el-gohary (2017). table 1 provides examples of sie-represented energy requirements in a projects specifications. the dependency information is the conceptual dependency information among the sies that helps identify the extraction sequence of the sies, in which the use of dependee sies to extract a depender sie reduces ambiguities. the proposed method is novel because it further uses incomplete- ness features (i.e., features of incomplete sentence structures), along with dependency information, to help define the feature patterns and develop extraction rules that reduce ambiguities in text with incom- plete sentence structures. incompleteness features tend to cooccur with target information. the incompleteness features thus can reduce ambiguities that cannot be addressed solely by dependency informa- tion. for example, both temperature and thermal resistivity are potential candidates of the sie compliance checking attribute, but in the context of p1, only thermal resistivity (in bold) should be extracted as a compliance checking attribute of a requirement; the temperature (in bold) refers to a testing condition. in rule r1, the comma, which is an incompleteness feature that signals the co- occurrence of target information, reduces this ambiguity. it imposes an additional matching condition that a candidate compliance checking attribute should be preceded by an incompleteness feature (in addition to being succeeded by quantity value and a quantity unit/reference, the dependency information) (cid:129) p1: c. form mw-1: un-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; with maximum flame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 15 and zero, respectively, per astm e84; passing astm e136 for combustion characteristics: 1. minimum thermal resistivity (r) of 29.8 k  m=w (4.3 deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in:) at mean temperature of 24 deg c (75 deg f).  asce 04022025-4 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 1. examples of sie-represented requirements in gold standard requirement 1 foil-scrim or foil-scrim-polyethylene vapor retarder n/a n/a n/a maximum 5.75  1012 (0.10) subject semantic information element subject restriction compliance checking attribute permeance deontic operator indicator quantitative relation comparative relation quantity value split text section 07 21 00building insulation 2.3 mineral wool board insulation d. form mw-2: foil-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim- polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 5.75  1012 kg=pa  s  m2 (0.10 perm) when tested in accordance with astm e96; with maximum flame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 5, respectively, per astm e84. 2. nominal density of 64 kg=cu: m (4 lb=cu: ft.), thermal resistivity of 27.7 k  m=w at 24 deg c (4 deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in: at 75 deg f). agreater than or equal was used as a default comparative relation if it is implicit in text. quantity unit/reference quantity restriction n/a kg=pa  s  m2 (perm) requirement 2 requirement 3 foil-faced semi-rigid mineral-wool board foil-faced semi-rigid mineral-wool board n/a nominal density n/a n/a greater than or equala greater than or equala 64 (4) n/a thermal resistivity n/a n/a 27.7 (4) kg/cu. m (lb/cu. ft.) n/a k  m=w (deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in:) n/a (cid:129) r1: 2. nominal density of 64 kg=cu: m (4 lb=cu: ft.), types ia and ib, thermal resistivity of 27.7 k  m=w at 24 deg c (4  deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in: at 75 deg f). (token.string == ,) + (potentialcommercialbuilding energyefficiencyattribute):cr + in + quantityvalue + quantity unit/reference > cr.compliancecheckingattribute., where the pattern (token.string == ,) matches a comma, which is an incompleteness feature; potentialcommercialbuil- dingenergyefficiencyattribute is a semantic feature that corre- sponds to a commercial building energy efficiency property (e.g., thermal resistivity), a concept in the ontology; in is the pos tag for prepositions (e.g., of); and quantityvalue and quantityunit/reference, the dependency information, match 27.7 (4) and k  m=w (deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in:), respectively. method 3: proposed detail-aware level of development extraction method a detail-aware lod extraction method is proposed to extract re- quirements that are in the target bim lod for compliance checking of bims. in this research, a lod 350, as defined in the 2017 lod specification (bimforum 2017), is the target for both the require- ments and the bims. the proposed method is novel because the target lod is differentiated automatically based on analyzing the sentence grammatical moods in terms of syntactic text features. the proposed method uses an indirect way to extract information in lod 350 from the text: (1) the extraction rules (section extrac- tion rule development using methods 2 and 3) are used to extract all information regardless of lod; and (2) the information in lod 400 or above then is recognized and removed from all the extracted information, leaving only information in lod 350. a rule-based pattern-matching approach is used to recognize the information in lod 400 or above. as discussed in the section background, imperative sentences are used to convey informa- tion in lod 400 or above, and the key feature of imperative sen- tences is an action verb. therefore, a set of tagging rules is used to recognize and tag action verbs. subsequently, sentences that begin with action verbs, except those in an exclusion list, are recognized as containing information in lod 400 or above. action verbs that are poor indicators of information in lod 400 or above (such as provide) are included in a list of exclusion verbs. pos tags are used to define the feature patterns in the tagging rules. fig. 3 shows an example of a tagging rule, in which (1) the feature pattern is given in lines 110, (2) the recognized action verbs are tagged with actionverb in line 12, and (3) the exclusion verbs are listed in line 7. for example, this tagging rule was able to recognize that hem in s1 is an action verb, and accordingly s1 was removed (cid:129) s1: hem exposed edges of flashing on underside 0.013 m (1/2 in.). a new domain-specific pos tagger is proposed to support the recognition of action verbs, because a general pos tagger is limited in tagging domain-specific documents. in general, a pos tagger relies on two components to tag a worda lexicon, and a ruleset. the lexicon is a dictionary of words in which each word has a list of related pos tags (i.e., a word may have multiple word classes). the first tag in the list is the most likely word class for that word in one type of document, and is the default tag assigned to a word. for example, check nn vb vbp is an item in the lexicon of the general architecture for text engineering (gate) hepple pos tagger (cunningham et al. 2011), in which the related pos tags nn vb vbp indicate that the word check has three-word classes: it can be a singular or mass noun (nn, which is the default tag), a base form verb (vb), or a non-third-person singular present verb (vbp). the ruleset contains a set of conversion rules to con- vert the default tag to another tag if its adjacent words in the text match certain feature patterns. for example, hepples conversion rule nn vb prevtag to (cunningham et al. 2011) would convert the tag of check from its default nn to vb, if the previous word check in the text has the pos tag to (i.e., if check is preceded by to). this rule still would fail to tag check correctly as a verb in cases in which it is not preceded by to, such as in check the movement of the doors at both limits of travel. as this example shows, a general pos tagger such as hepples does not perform well in tagging action verbs because of missing domain-specific information in its lexicon and ruleset. for example, hepples lexicon is based on the text in the wall street journal (cunningham et al. 2011), in which check is more likely to be a noun referring to a written order directing a bank to pay money, and hence nn is its default tag. in contrast, in the con- text of contract specifications, check is more likely to be a verb meaning verify. therefore, the default for check in the new tag- ger is vb. the new domain-specific tagger was developed by building a domain-specific lexicon and ruleset based on hepples.  asce 04022025-5 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 3. example of a tagging rule for recognizing action verbs. text preprocessing using method 1 the proposed domain-specific text splitting and stitching method was implemented first to deal with the hierarchically complex text structures. the proposed method was used to split the classified articles. for example, an article with number and title 2.3 min- eral wool board insulation was classified as thermal insulation topic (fig. 2). the article includes four paragraphs, of which paragraphs a and d include five and two subparagraphs, respectively. the article was split into the subparagraph level, in which each split text included the text from the subparagraph and paragraph, and was stitched with the numbers and titles of the corresponding section (section 07 21 00building insulation) and article (2.3 mineral wool board insulation). the resulting split text then was preprocessed using three common text processing techniques: tokenization, sentence splitting, and morpho- logical analysis. tokenization aims to split the raw text into tokens (e.g., words, to identify numbers, punctuations, symbols, and whitespace) implementation of proposed semantic information extraction method the proposed semantic ie method was implemented and tested in extracting building energy requirements from the contract specifi- cations of an educational building project. the scope of testing was limited to two subtopics of commercial building energy efficiency: thermal insulation, and lighting power. only text from part 2 products of the specifications was used in testing because that part contains all related design requirements for compliance checking. the implementation and testing included seven primary steps (fig. 4). domain-specific text classification domain-specific text classification was conducted to filter out articles that were not related to building energy efficiency. fig. 5 shows an example of an irrelevant article that was filtered out, because it prescribes fireproofing requirements. the tc method proposed by zhou and el-gohary (2016) was used in this research to classify the articles. details of the tc method were given by zhou and el-gohary (2016). step 1 step 2 domain-specic text classication text preprocessing using method 1 step 3 feature selection syntactic features semantic features step 7 performance evaluation step 6 step 5 step 4 extraction implementation extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3 identication of conceptual dependency structure of target information fig. 4. implementation of proposed semantic information extraction method. fig. 5. example of an irrelevant article.  asce 04022025-6 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. sentence boundaries and to prepare for pos tagging (manning and schutze 1999; moens 2006). for example, the text 2. nominal den- sity of 64 kg=cu: m. was tokenized into 2 . nominal density of 64 kg / cu . m . (whitespace tokens are not shown). sentence splitting aims to split the text into individual sentences based on the sentence boundary indicators (e.g., periods, exclama- tion marks, and question marks) (jurafsky and martin 2020). sentence boundary indicators in contract specifications have ambi- guities similar to those in energy codes. for example, the periods in the subparagraph number 2. and in the measurement unit lbs. per cubic foot are not sentence boundary indicators. therefore, a set of domain-specific sentence splitting rules was developed manually to correctly recognize and split sentences in specifications. morphological analysis aims to convert the words in deriva- tional (e.g., affixes such as -ly and -ion) or inflectional forms (e.g., plural or progressive) to their base form (manning and schutze 1999). for example, both limiting and limiter were con- verted to the base form limit. morphological analysis helped in recognizing and selecting the semantic features (section feature selection) by mapping the morphologically analyzed text to the ontology concepts. for example, through morphological analysis, current limiting circuit breakers in the natural text was mapped to the concept current limit circuit breaker in the ontology. the concept then was used as a semantic feature. feature selection fig. 6. partial view of the commercial building energy ontology. the target information is recognized based on the features of the text (section extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3). two types of features were used: syntactic and semantic features. syntactic features three types of syntactic features were used: pos tags, gazetteers, and domain-specific tags. pos tagging aims to assign a pos tag to each word based on its word class (e.g., adjective, noun, preposi- tion) (moens 2006). for example, the tag jj was assigned to ad- jectives (e.g., thermal). in this research, a domain-specific pos tagger was developed and used (section method 3: proposed detail-aware level of development extraction method). each pos tag was used as a syntactic feature. a gazetteer refers to a list of words belonging to the same category (e.g., country names) (wimalasuriya and dou 2010). in this research, two gazetteers were developed manually: a com- parison gazetteer, and a measurement unit gazetteer. the first in- cluded words and phrases that indicate comparison relationships (e.g., exceed and less than). the second included words and symbols that represent quantity units (e.g., watt and k  m=w). each gazetteer was assigned a tag, and each tag was used as a syn- tactic feature. fourteen domain-specific tags were defined in this research, and a set of tagging rules was developed to tag the text with these tags. an example of such tags is domainspecificcd, which refers to domain-specific cardinal numbers (e.g., 1-1/8). each tag was used as a syntactic feature. semantic features the semantic features of the text were captured using the commer- cial building energy ontology (zhou and el-gohary 2017), which covers concepts that are related to commercial building energy efficiency. a partial view of the energy ontology is shown in fig. 6. the web ontology language in-memory (owlim) ontology editor of gate (cunningham et al. 2011), a text processing plat- form, was used to build the ontology. the ontology was processed by the gate ontoroot gazetteer module to create a concept gazetteer and to parse the hierarchical is-a relationships among the concepts. each concept in the gazetteer was used as a semantic feature. the is-a relationships helped recognize subconcept rela- tionships for the extraction (section extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3). identification of conceptual dependency structure of target information a conceptual dependency structure (cds) was developed to re- present the dependency information among the target information the nine sies (section method 2: proposed incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction method). such dependency in- formation helps to identify the extraction sequences of the sies. the cds of zhou and el-gohary (2017) was adapted; the text in contract specifications was analyzed to identify the depend- ency relationships among the sies, and the cds of zhou and el-gohary (2017) was modified accordingly. fig. 7 shows the de- veloped cds for specifications, in which arrows represent the dependency relationships and numbers indicate the extraction sequence. the cds for specifications differs from the cds of zhou and el-gohary (2017) in two main ways. first, it contains 50% more dependency relationships among all sies, in which most of these extra relationships involve two siesdeontic indicator, and quantitative relation. for example, operator deontic operator indicator and quantitative relation depend on two new siesquantity value, and compliance checking attribute. second, subject is moved up in the cds, before deontic operator indicator, indicating that deontic operator in- dicator is no longer used as a dependency information in the ex- traction of subject. these two dependency differences are due to the differences in sentence structures and writing style across co- des and specifications (as discussed in the section background). for example, modal verbs (which are instances of deontic oper- ator indicator) are less likely to be used in specification sentences  asce 04022025-7 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. fig. 7. conceptual dependency structure. (e.g., the modal verb shall is replaced by a colon in streamlined writing), which results in the need to use other information (e.g., incompleteness features) to extract subjects. extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3 the extraction rules were developed manually after analyzing the text feature patterns in a sample of text (called development data). the development data included 400 sample sentences from five contract specifications which cover five energy topics (air leakage, thermal insulation, fenestration, lighting system control, and light- ing power). each extraction rule has two sides: the left side models the feature patterns using regular expressions, and the right side indicates the target information that needs to be extracted. for example, r2 extracted permeance from s2, as an instance of compliance checking attribute. the rule states that if a commer- cial building energy efficiency attribute is preceded by a compar- ative relation and is followed by in, quantity value, and quantity unit/reference, the attribute should be extracted as an instance of compliance checking attribute (cid:129) s2: faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim- polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 5.75  1012 kg=pa  s  m2 (0.10 perm) when tested in accor- dance with astm e96. (cid:129) r2: comparativerelation + (potentialcommercialbuilding energyefficiencyattribute):cr + in + quantityvalue + quantity unit/reference > cr.compliancecheckingattribute., where potentialcommercialbuildingenergyefficiencyattribute is a se- mantic feature that matches a concept in the ontology; in is a pos tag that matches prepositions such as of; comparative relation, quantityvalue, and quantityunit/reference are three sies that are used as dependency information (matching maximum, 0.10, and perm, respectively, in s2); and cr is the pointer set to the semantic feature potentialcommercial buildingenergyefficiencyattribute. during the development of extraction rules, the proposed incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction method (method 2) and detail-aware lod extraction method (method 3) were considered and implemented to deal with incomplete sentence structures and the variety of lods. for method 2, the incomplete- ness features were used as text features, along with the dependency information among target sies, to define the text feature patterns and develop the extraction rules (rule r1). for method 3, the tagging rules (section method 3: proposed detail-aware level of development extraction method) were developed and imple- mented along with the extraction rules to recognize the action verbs. the split sentences (section text preprocessing using method 1) that included the action verbs were recognized as im- perative sentences. the imperative sentences, from which all infor- mation was extracted by the extraction rules, then were removed. in the lod extraction, (1) 71 domain-specific words, with their related pos tags, and 6 conversion rules were added to the lexicon and ruleset of the gate hepple pos tagger; and (2) 5 tagging rules were developed to recognize the action verbs of imperative sentences. to address conflicts that may arise in the extraction, 12 domain- specific conflict resolution (cr) rules were developed. these rules can be categorized into two typesglobal and local cr rules. global rules are applicable to all sies, whereas local rules are applicable only to specific sies. for example, cr1 is a global rule, which applies to all sies. it extracted 2.0 (rather than 0) from s3, as an instance of quantity value, because 2.0 is the longest matching instance. in contrast, cr7 is a local rule, which applies to subjects only. it extracted the more-specific fluorescent elec- tronic ballast (rather than ballast) from s4, as an instance of subject (cid:129) s3: sprayed polyurethane foam sealant: 1- or 2-component, foamed-in-place, polyurethane foam sealant, 24 to 32 kg=cu: m (1.5 to 2.0 lb=cu: ft.) density. (cid:129) cr1: if there are multiple instances that match the text fea- ture patterns, only the longest matching instance should be extracted. (cid:129) s4: 2.9 fluorescent electronic ballast f. ballast requirements: 5. ballast power factor shall be greater than 95%. (cid:129) cr7: if there are multiple matching instances for subject, the instance that corresponds to the lower-level concept (i.e., the more-specific concept in the ontology) should be extracted. extraction implementation the proposed semantic ie method was implemented in a java- based platform. the application programming interfaces (apis) of the following modules in the a nearly-new ie (annie) system of gate (cunningham et al. 2011) were used to implement the methods discussed in the aforementioned sections, including the annie english tokeniser, annie sentence splitter, gate morphological analyser, annie pos tagger, annie gazetteer,  asce 04022025-8 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. ontoroot gazetteer, and jape transducer. each of these modules may have a set of initialization parameters, and each parameter was set experimentally in this research. for example, the values of the parameters lexiconurl and rulesurl in the annie pos tagger were set to the developed domain-specific lexicon and ruleset. the two gazetteers (section feature selection) were added to the annie gazetteer. the domain-specific sentence splitting rules (section text preprocessing using method 1), the tagging rules for the 14 domain-specific tags (section feature selection), the tagging rules for recognizing the action verbs in the detail-aware lod extraction method (section extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3), and the extraction rules (section extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3) were developed in the grammar of java annotation patterns engine (jape) (cunningham et al. 2011) using the jape editor vi improved (vim) (robbins et al. 2008), and were added to the jape transducer. the domain-specific text classification (section domain-specific text classification), the domain-specific text splitting and stitching (section text preprocessing using method 1), and the cr rules (section extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3) were implemented in separate java programs. performance metrics recall and precision were used to measure the performance (maynard et al. 2006; moens 2006). recall refers to the percentage of the total number of correctly extracted instances out of the total number of instances in the gold standard. precision refers to the percentage of the total number of correctly extracted instan- ces out of the total number of extracted instances. the confidence interval (p) was calculated for recall and precision to test the statistical significance of the results (goutte and gaussier 2005). the wilson score without continuity correction (wilson 1927) was used to measure the confidence intervals because it is both compu- tationally simple and satisfactory (newcombe 1998). it was calcu- lated using eq. (1), where p0 refers to the values of precision or recall, q0  1  p0,  is the critical value for the confidence inter- val, n refers to either the total number of extracted instances (for calculating p for precision) or the total number of instances in the gold standard (for calculating p for recall), and t  2=n p  p0  t=2 1  t (cid:2) p  p0q0t  t2=4 1  t 1 experimental results and analysis experimental setup a testing data set was used to evaluate the performance. the data set was prepared based on the contract specifications of an educational building project in illinois, which were different from the five specifications that were used to prepare the development data (section extraction rule development using methods 2 and 3). the sections from divisions 07 and 26 of the specifica- tions were selected because they contain thermal-insulation and lighting-power requirements. a total of 148 requirements were selected randomly from the 393 requirements in these sections, which formed the testing data set. a gold standard was developed for performance evaluation. a gold standard includes the human- annotated testing data, annotated with the target information. the extraction results then are compared to the gold standard to evalu- ate precision and recall. to develop the gold standard, the require- ments were annotated by three annotatorsthe first author, and two other researchers. the f-measure was used to measure the reliability of the annotated gold standard (the equation of the f-measure is given by pestian et al. 2012). an initial interanno- tator agreement of 88% for the f-measure was achieved, which is considered to be a sufficient score. an f-measure of 0.8 or inter-annotator agree- above is generally considered sufficient ment (pestian et al. 2012). the disagreements among annotators were resolved to achieve final full annotator agreement using the common majority voting technique (e.g., vieira and poesio 2000; klebanov and beigman 2009): (1) if the majority (i.e., at least two) of the annotators achieved agreement, then the agreed-on annota- tion was used, and (2) if the majority (i.e., at least two) of the annotators did not achieve agreement, then a discussion was con- ducted until they achieved agreement and the agreed annotation was used. because of the unambiguous nature of quantitative requirements within the scope of the authors research, along with the well-defined sies used in the proposed method, there was a majority agreement in formulating the gold standard. as an illus- tration, table 1 lists three sie-represented requirements from the gold standard, which were from one article after domain-specific text splitting and stitching in fig. 2. performance results the experimental results are summarized in table 2. a total of 99 extraction rules were developed. the gold standard contained a total of 787 instances for all 9 sies. the calculation of precision and recall for those 9 sies followed the most conservative and stringent ruleonly an exact match was considered to be cor- rect. an example of calculating the precision and recall by com- paring the extraction results with the gold standard is provided in table 3. an overall performance of 96.8% recall [with a confi- dence interval of (95.4%, 97.8%) at the 95% confidence level] and 97.6% precision [with a confidence interval of (96.2%, 98.4%) at the 95% confidence level] was achieved. this promis- ing performance indicates that the proposed semantic ie method is successful in extracting building energy requirements from con- tract specifications. table 2. experimental results of extracting building energy requirements from contract specifications parameter/measure subject subject restriction compliance checking attribute deontic operator indicator quantitative relation comparative relation quantity value quantity unit/ reference quantity restriction total average 20 information extraction rules 148 instances in gold standard instances extracted 137 instances correctly extracted 132 precision (%) recall (%) 96.4 89.2 4 35 33 33 100.0 94.3 11 108 107 104 97.2 96.3 4 15 15 15 100.0 100.0 9 29 29 29 100.0 100.0 6 148 147 147 100.0 99.3 20 148 156 147 94.2 99.3 20 148 149 147 98.7 99.3 5 8 8 8 100.0 100.0  99  787  781  762  97.6  96.8  asce 04022025-9 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. table 3. example comparing extraction results with gold standard for performance calculation split text 072100 building insulation 2 products 2.2 glass-fiber board insulation d. form fg-7: semi-rigid, glass-fiber board insulation with white faced on one side all service jacket (asj), of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: for application on underside of exposed floor decks, astm c 612, type 1a & 1b. 3. nominal density of 48 kg=cu: m (3 lb=cu: ft.), thermal resistivity of 29.8 k  m=w at 24 deg c (4.3 deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in: at 75 deg f). semantic information element subject subject restriction compliance checking attribute deontic operator indicator quantitative relation gold standard extraction result semi-rigid glass-fiber board  thermal resistivity   glass-fiber board thermal resistivity    comparison and performance result incorrect (recall error + precision error)  correct comparative relation quantity value quantity unit/reference quantity restriction greater than or equala 29.8 (4.3) k  m=w (deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in:)  greater than or equala 29.8 (4.3) k  m=w (deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in:)  correct correct correct    agreater than or equal was used as a default comparative relation if it is implicit in text. effects of incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extraction the experimental results show the effectiveness of the incomplete- ness features along with the dependency information in two ways. first, the use of incompleteness features improved the overall extrac- tion performance, by 2.1% (from 95.5% to 97.6%) precision and 0.5% (from 96.3% to 96.8%) recall. second, the incompleteness fea- tures were effective in reducing ambiguities. dependency informa- tion alone may not be sufficient. for example, in fig. 8, the letter a (in bold), which is a potential instance of quantity unit/reference, may create ambiguity. it may be a paragraph number (e.g., a. item 1: busway:), a part of a designation number (e.g., astm c612, type 1a & 1b.), or the abbreviation of ampere (e.g., c. auxiliary contacts, rated 10 a, 250 vac,), but only in the last case should it be extracted as an instance of quantity unit/reference. the pro- posed method was able to avoid such ambiguities using incomplete- ness features, in addition to the dependency information. the analysis of errors that were reduced by using incomplete- ness features indicates two interesting findings. first, incomplete- ness features may have different contributions to the extraction of different sies. this is reflected by the fact that sies that are on top of the cds tended to achieve the most performance improvement. for example, the sie quantity value improved by 3.7% (from 90.5% to 94.2%) recall and 2.7% (from 96.6% to 99.3%) preci- sion; the quantity unit/reference improved by 3.0% (from 95.7% to 98.7%) precision; the subject improved by 4.1% (from 92.3% to 96.4%) precision; and the compliance checking attribute im- proved by 0.9% (from 96.3% to 97.2%) precision. second, the incompleteness features may help recognize the boundary (begin- ning or ending) of target information within the text to reduce errors. for example, the incompleteness feature , in s5 signals the begin- ning of target information. thus, 10, rather than 4397, 10, cor- rectly was extracted as a quantity value. similarly, because of the lack of incompleteness features in s6 to signal the boundary, 2.5 fig. 8. example of using incompleteness features along with dependency information in reducing ambiguities.  asce 04022025-10 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. and insulation, although matching the feature patterns, cor- rectly were not extracted as a quantity value and a compliance checking attribute, respectively (cid:129) s5: polyethylene film: astm d 4397, 2.5  104 m (10 mils) thick, : : : . (cid:129) s6: 071326 2-products 2.5 insulation a. board insulation: extruded-polystyrene insulation : : : . effects of detail-aware lod extraction the experimental results show that no extraction errors were caused by the detail-aware lod extraction, which indicates the success of the proposed method in extracting information in lod 350. how- ever, a few errors occurred in tagging the action verbs for two rea- sons. first, the incomplete sentence structures make it challenging to tag words that have word-class ambiguity. as discussed in the section method 3: proposed detail-aware level of development extraction method, (1) some words may have multiple word classes, which may result in word-class ambiguity, and (2) the pos tagger relies on the context of a word (i.e., its adjacent words in text) to determine its word class. however, text with incomplete sentence structures may lack sufficient contextual information to determine the correct word class, which may result in pos tagging errors. for example, the word safeguard has word-class ambigu- ity; it could be either a noun or a verb. it was tagged incorrectly as an action verb in t1 because it is the first word of the sentence and has only partial context information (e.g., gravel, stop, and system) to determine its word class. a semantic pos tagger could have helped address this word-class ambiguity; it could have used domain-specific knowledge (e.g., in the form of ontology or gazetteer) to disambiguate the word classes. for example, safe- guard is the trademark name for a gravel stop system, and there- fore was more likely to be a noun: (cid:129) t1: a. safeguard gravel stop system by w.w. hickman co. second, a few verbs that were included in the verb exclusion list occasionally were used in imperative sentences that prescribe requirements in lod 400 or above. for example, the verb pro- vide was added to the verb exclusion list, but it should have been tagged as an action verb in t2, because the imperative sentence contains a fabrication requirement for flat lock seams (i.e., a re- quirement in lod 400 or above) (cid:129) t2: c. provide flat lock seams, except corners. fabricate corners minimum 0.45 m  0.45 m (18 in.  18 in.) mitered and sealed as one piece. error analysis an error analysis was conducted to identify the sources of extrac- tion errors. six sources of errors were identified: dependency infor- mation, uncommon patterns, conflict resolution errors, extraction tool errors, ambiguous concept representation, and coreference am- biguity. first, missing the extraction of the dependee may result in missing the extraction of the depender. for example, in t3, maxi- mum was not extracted as a comparative relation, because its de- pendees, 4 (quantity value) and  (the unit symbol for feet, a quantity unit/reference), were not extracted (cid:129) t3: 2. board size: 4 0-0 00  4 0-0 00 maximum. second, uncommon patterns may result in missing the extrac- tion of target information. compared with energy codes, uncom- mon patterns are more likely to occur in contract specifications text representations. for example, 4 due to their special and  were not extracted as instances of quantity value and quantity unit/reference from t3 because of this rare pattern (4 0-0 00  4 0-0 00) for representing values and units. third, conflict resolution errors were due to missing a cr rule or due to an error caused by a cr rule. missing a cr rule may result in extracting irrelevant information. for example, in t4, four instances of quantity value [i.e., 5.75  1012 (0.10), 25, 36 (2.25), and 29.8 (4.3)] and three instances of quantity unit/ reference [i.e., kg=pa  s  m2 (perm), kg=cu: m (lb=cu: ft.), and k  m=w (deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in:)] were extracted, in which 25 was incorrect, because it refers to the flame spread index, an attribute for an irrelevant fire safety requirement. the current cr rules were not able to deal with such errors. on the other hand, errors caused by the cr rules may result in missing the extraction of target information. for example, cr10 caused an extraction error for t5. impedance incorrectly was deleted from t5 because it is contained in impedance tolerance. both imped- ance and impedance tolerance should have been extracted as compliance checking attribute instances, because each refers to a requirement (cid:129) t4: c. form fg-4: foil-faced, glass-fiber board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type ia; faced on one side with foil-scrim-kraft or foil-scrim-polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 5.75  1012 kg=pa  s  m2 (0.10 perm) when tested in accordance with astm e96, with maximum flame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 50, respectively, per astm e84. 1. nominal density of 36 kg=cu: m (2.25 lb=cu: ft.), thermal resistivity of 29.8 k  m=w at 24 deg c (4.3 deg f  h  sq: ft.=btu  in: at 75 deg f). (cid:129) t5: h. impedance: minimum 5.75 percent. the impedance tolerance shall be plus or minus 7.5 percent. (cid:129) cr10: if there are two instances for the sie compliance checking attribute and one instance is contained in another, keep the longer instance and delete the shorter one. fourth, few errors were caused by the extraction tool errors. for example, in t6, time delay was not extracted as a compliance checking attribute because the gate morphological analyzer failed to recognize the semantic feature time delay (cid:129) t6: g. when required by national electrical code or indicated on project drawings, the control system shall include a ground fault monitoring relay. the relay shall be adjustable from 100 to 1,200 amps, and include adjustable time delay of 01.0 s. fifth, a concept may have an ambiguous representation in the text, which may result in failure to recognize its semantic features and consequently failure of the extraction. for example, in t7, the concept recessed mounted panelboard was represented as panelboard, recessed mount, which resulted in failure to recog- nize the semantic feature and extract panelboard, recessed mount as a subject instance. this indicates that further process- ing may be required, in addition to morphological analysis, to help recognize the semantic features of the text with ambiguous concept representation (cid:129) t7: 1. panelboard, recessed mount, 208/120 volt, 3 phase, 4 wire, s/n, ground bus, copper bus, bolt-on breakers, nema 1 enclosure, see schedules for size and configuration, see spec- ifications for additional information. sixth, coreference ambiguity may result in the extraction of inaccurate information. for example, in t6, relay incorrectly was extracted as an instance of subject, which is inaccuratebecause relay actually refers to ground fault monitoring relay in a pre- vious sentence. coreference ambiguity was out of the research scope.  asce 04022025-11 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. limitations and future work four limitations related to the scope of the work and the testing are acknowledged. first, the proposed ie method is limited to the ex- traction of requirements from masterformat specifications. how- ever, the promising performance achieved is not specific or limited to the format of masterformat. different types of documents have different text characteristics (e.g., terminologies, sentence struc- tures, text features, and grammars). each characteristic could pose a benefit for or challenge to natural language processing and docu- ment analytics. leveraging the benefits and overcoming the chal- lenges depends on the success of the processing and analytics methods used. for example, the incomplete sentence structures of the masterformat pose a challenge because they hinder the abil- ity to benefit from full sentence analysis and dependency informa- tion, which are addressed successfully by the proposed method through capturing the regularity of incompleteness text feature pat- terns. in future research, the proposed method could be tested on other specification standards such as the uniformat (csi 2021). we expect that the proposed method will generalize well to other formats of specifications, with necessary adaptions, because differ- ent types of specifications share common text characteristics, with some expected differences. for example, the uniformat shares some common characteristics with the masterformat (e.g., incom- plete sentence structures and streamlined writing style), but with some differences in the level of detail of the text. new text com- plexities that could arise can be addressed through adaptations and/ or extensions of the proposed methods. second, the proposed detail-aware lod extraction method is limited to the extraction of information in lod 350, because the research scope currently is limited to checking the compliance of bims in lod 350. in future research, to extend the proposed ie method to multiple lods, machine-learning techniques could be used to develop a text classifier to classify the sentences automati- cally according to the required lod, in which the grammatical moods, types of action verbs, and paragraph headings could be se- lected as features for the machine learning. third, the proposed method was tested only in extracting two types of requirementsthermal insulation, and lighting power. in future work, the proposed method could be tested on more en- ergy topics (e.g., fenestration), as well as additional types of topics (e.g., safety). the methods also potentially are applicable to other types of documents that may share similar characteristics (e.g., hierarchically complex text structures) with specifications [e.g., occupational safety and health administration (osha) standards] for use in other acc areas. minor extension effort would be needed in this case. for example, the commercial build- ing energy ontology may need to be extended if the new energy subtopics are not already covered in the scope of the ontology. the lexicon and the ruleset of the domain-specific tagger may need to be extended to cover new domain-specific words and conversion rules. in addition, the extraction rules and tagging rules (section extraction implementation) also may need some modification or extension. the rules could be either reused as is or adapted (modified or extended) based on additional development text. compared with the initial efforts, future adaptation efforts should require significantly less work. a similar level of performance is expected after such necessary extension is conducted. fourth, due to the manual effort involved in its development, the gold standard included only 148 requirements from the contract specifications of one project. in future work, the authors plan to test the proposed method further using a larger set of requirements from the specifications of multiple projects. a comparable level of performance is expected. in addition, in ongoing and future work, the authors will test and compare the use of rule-based and machine-learning approaches in the extraction of requirements from specifications. this could pro- vide more insight into, as well as empirical evidence of, the com- parison of both approachesmachine learning and rule-basedin such deep ie tasks. as we compare both approaches, it will be important to pay attention to a number of differentand potentially conflictingaspects: performance, development effort, scalability, computational efficiency, and so forth. a hybrid approach also could be explored. it may prove to be a good way of leveraging the best of both worlds. conclusions and contributions this paper proposes a semantic deep ie method to automatically extract building energy requirements from contract specifications. a rule-based approach was used to develop the ie method, in which both syntactic features (pos tags, gazetteer features, and domain- specific tags) and semantic features (ontology concepts) are used to develop the extraction rules. to deal with the text complexities of specificationshierarchically complex text structures, incom- plete sentence structures, and the variety of lodsthree subme- thods are proposed: a domain-specific text splitting and stitching method, an incompleteness-aware sequential dependency extrac- tion method, and a detail-aware lod extraction method. the proposed method was tested in extracting building thermal- insulation and lighting-power requirements from the masterformat specifications of an educational building project. a performance of 96.8% recall and 97.6% precision was achieved on the testing data. the experimental results indicate a number of conclusions. first, the proposed semantic ie method is promising in extracting energy requirements from specifications. extraction errors may arise from dependency information, uncommon patterns, conflict resolution errors, extraction tool errors, ambiguous concept representation in the text, and/or coreference ambiguity. second, text with hier- archically complex text structures successfully can be split and sim- plified in an automated way. third, the use of incompleteness features, along with dependency information, is effective in reduc- ing ambiguities. fourth, the requirements related to a target lod successfully can be filtered and extracted. a few errors occurred in tagging the action verbs of imperative sentences, which indicate lod 400 or above, due to word-class ambiguity and incorrect ex- clusion verbs. however, these tagging errors did not propagate into ie errors; no ie errors were caused by the detail-aware lod extraction. the proposed method has potential good generalizability for three reasons. first, the proposed method could be generalized to other formats of specifications with necessary adaptions, because of the common text characteristics shared by different types of specifications. for example, incomplete sentence structures and streamlined writing style are shared by both masterformat and uniformat. second, the extraction rules developed are not specific to a particular concept that appeared only in the development text (e.g., foil-faced_rigid_glass-fiber_board). instead, the most high-level concept for that particular concept (e.g., building_ envelope_energy_efficiency_concept) was captured by the on- tology and used in defining the syntactic and semantic feature patterns to improve the generalizability of rules. therefore, the extraction rules can reason through the ontological concepts to identify the target information. similarly, the extraction rules also are not specific to a particular pattern that appeared only in the de- velopment text; the patterns are generalized based on domain knowledge. third, the extraction rules were developed based on  asce 04022025-12 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. five contract specifications, and tested on another contracts spec- ifications to ensure that the rules are not overfitting to particular specifications. the promising performance of the experimental re- sults indicates good generalizability of the proposed methods. this work contributes to the body of knowledge in four primary ways. first, a semantic deep ie method is proposed to automati- cally extract energy requirements from contract specifications, thereby addressing a knowledge gap in the area of automated deep ie from specifications. in contrast to shallow methods, deep extrac- tion can extract all information that describes a requirement, which is essential for acc. compared with code checking, which helps meet minimum regulatory requirements, specification checking is necessary to meet the additional requirements of the owner. second, a domain-specific text splitting and stitching method is proposed to deal with hierarchically complex text structures. the proposed method uses a regular expressions-based pattern- matching technique to recognize the splitting signals automatically and split the text based on the text feature patterns. this allows for simplifying the hierarchically complex text structures and reducing the complexity of the text for further ie. third, an incompleteness- aware sequential dependency extraction method is proposed to deal with incomplete sentence structures. the proposed method exploits incompleteness features, in addition to dependency information among sies, to reduce the text ambiguities. fourth, a detail-aware lod extraction method is proposed to deal with the variety of lods. the lods of the information are distinguished based on the grammatical moods of sentences. a domain-specific pos tag- ger is offered to support the recognition of domain-specific text features for use in analyzing the grammatical moods. after neces- sary adaptations, the proposed methods potentially are generaliz- able to other formats of specifications, as well as to other types of documents (e.g., osha standards) that share similar text char- acteristics and complexities (e.g., hierarchically complex text struc- tures). the knowledge generated (e.g., incompleteness and lod features) also could be integrated with machine learning ap- proaches for a variety of document analytics tasks (e.g., extracting design parameters in different lods for automated cost estima- tion), which would broaden the contribution of this effort to multi- ple areas of application within the civil engineering domain. data availability statement some or all data, models, or code generated or used during the study are available from the corresponding author by request (extraction rules, tagging rules for domain-specific tags and for rec- ognizing the action verbs, domain-specific pos tagger, and testing data set). acknowledgments the authors thank the national science foundation (nsf). this material is based upon work supported by the nsf under grant no. 1201170. any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recom- mendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of nsf. references abuzir, y., and m. o. abuzir. 2002. constructing the civil engineering thesaurus (cet) using theswb. in proc., 2002 int. workshop on information technology in civil engineering, 400412. reston, va: asce. akanbi, t., and j. zhang. 2020. automated design information extraction from construction specifications to support wood construction cost estimation. in proc., 2020 construction research congress (crc), 658666. reston, va: asce. al qady, m. a., and a. kandil. 2010. concept relation extraction from construction documents using natural language processing. j. constr. eng. manage. 136 (3): 294302. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)co .1943-7862.0000131. amor, r., and j. dimyadi. 2021. the promise of automated compliance checking. dev. built environ. 5 (mar): 100039. https://doi.org/10.1016 /j.dibe.2020.100039. beach, t. h., y. rezgui, h. li, and t. kasim. 2015. a rule-based seman- tic approach for automated regulatory compliance in the construction sector. expert syst. appl. 42 (12): 52195231. https://doi.org/10.1016 /j.eswa.2015.02.029. bimforum. 2017. level of development specification 2017. accessed august 19, 2017. https://bim-forum.com/resources/documents/bim forum_lod_2017_reprint.pdf. cheng, j. c. p., and m. das. 2014. a bim-based web service framework for green building energy simulation and code checking. j. inf. technol. construct. 19 (8): 150168. choi, j., j. choi, and i. kim. 2014. development of bim-based evacuation regulation checking system for high-rise and complex buildings. autom. constr. 46 (oct): 3849. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2013 .12.005. csi and csc (construction specifications institute and construction spec- ifications canada). 2009. sectionformat/pageformat. accessed june 19, 2017. http://icee.usm.edu/dkemp/download/act380/presentations /supportingdocs-samples/pdpgdocs/sectionformat_pageformat_2009 .pdf. csi and csc (construction specifications institute and construction specifications canada). 2014. masterformatmaster list of numbers and titles for the construction industry. accessed june 19, 2017. http:// lor.rrc.mb.ca/file/9c8519dc-c193-4edc-a4b7-9084929d902a/1/master format_2014.pdf. csi and csc (construction specifications institute and construction specifications canada). 2017. sectionformat/pageformat. accessed june 16, 2021. https://www.csiresources.org/standards/sectionformat -pageformat. csi (construction specifications institute). 2004. the project resource manual: csi manual of practice. 5th ed. new york: mcgraw-hill. csi (construction specifications institute). 2021. uniformat. accessed august 16, 2021. https://www.csiresources.org/standards/uniformat. cunningham, h., d. maynard, and k. bontcheva. 2011. text processing with gate (version 6). sheffield, uk: univ. of sheffield, dept. of computer science. dimyadi, j., c. clifton, m. spearpoint, and r. amor. 2016. computeriz- ing regulatory knowledge for building engineering design. j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (5): c4016001. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943 -5487.0000572. goutte, c., and e. gaussier. 2005. a probabilistic interpretation of pre- cision, recall and f-score, with implication for evaluation. in proc., european conf. on information retrieval (ecir05), 345359. berlin: springer. hassan, f., and t. le. 2020. automated requirements identification from construction contract documents using natural language processing. j. leg. aff. dispute resolut. eng. constr. 12 (2): 04520009. https://doi .org/10.1061/(asce)la.1943-4170.0000379. huler, m., s. esser, and a. borrmann. 2021. code compliance checking of railway designs by integrating bim, bpmn and dmn. autom. constr. 121 (jan): 103427. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2020.103427. lal, s. m., and h. m. gnaydn. 2017. computer representation of building codes for automated compliance checking. autom. constr. 82 (oct): 4358. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2017.06.018. jeon, j., x. xu, y. zhang, l. yang, and h. cai. 2021. extraction of con- struction quality requirements from textual specifications via natural language processing. transp. res. rec. 2675 (9): 222237. https://doi .org/10.1177/03611981211001385.  asce 04022025-13 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved. jurafsky, d., and j. h. martin. 2020. speech and language processing: an introduction to natural language processing, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. 3rd ed. upper saddle river, nj: prentice hall. kalin, m., r. s. weygant, h. j. rosen, and j. r. regener. 2010. construc- tion specifications writing: principles and procedures. hoboken, nj: wiley. khemlani, l. 2005. corenet e-plancheck: singapores automated code checking system. aecbytes. accessed may 10, 2018. https://www .aecbytes.com/feature/2005/coreneteplancheck.html. kim, h., j.-k. lee, j. shin, and j. choi. 2019. visual language approach to representing kbimcode-based korea building code sentences for automated rule checking. j. comput. des. eng. 6 (2): 143148. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcde.2018.08.002. klebanov, b. b., and e. beigman. 2009. from annotator agreement to noise models. comput. ling. 35 (4): 495503. https://doi.org/10.1162 /coli.2009.35.4.35402. lee, j., j.-s. yi, and j. son. 2019. development of automatic-extraction model of poisonous clauses in international construction contracts using rule-based nlp. j. comput. civ. eng. 33 (3): 04019003. https://doi.org /10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000807. liu, k., and n. el-gohary. 2017. ontology-based semi-supervised condi- tional random fields for automated information extraction from bridge inspection reports. autom. constr. 81 (sep): 313327. https://doi.org /10.1016/j.autcon.2017.02.003. manning, c. d., and h. schutze. 1999. foundations of statistical natural language processing. cambridge, ma: mit press. maynard, d., w. peters, and y. li. 2006. metrics for evaluation of ontology-based information extraction. in proc., www 2006 work- shop on evaluation of ontologies for the web (eon). new york: association for computing machinery. moens, m. f. 2006. information extraction: algorithms and prospects in a retrieval context. new york: springer. moon, s., g. lee, s. chi, and h. oh. 2021. automated construction speci- fication review with named entity recognition using natural language processing. j. constr. eng. manage. 147 (1): 04020147. https://doi .org/10.1061/(asce)co.1943-7862.0001953. moreno, a., d. isern, and a. c. lopez fuentes. 2013. ontology-based information extraction of regulatory networks from scientific articles with case studies for escherichia coli. expert syst. appl. 40 (8): 32663281. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.12.090. nawari, n. o. 2012. automating codes conformance. j. archit. eng. 18 (4): 315323. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)ae.1943-5568 .0000049. nawari, n. o. 2020. generalized adaptive framework for computerizing the building design review process. j. archit. eng. 26 (1): 04019026. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)ae.1943-5568.0000382. newcombe, r. g. 1998. two-sided confidence intervals for the single proportion: comparison of seven methods. stat. med. 17 (8): 857872. https://doi.org/10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980430)17:8<857::aid -sim777>3.0.co;2-e. pauwels, p., d. van deursen, r. verstraeten, j. de roo, r. de meyer, r. van de walle, and j. van campenhout. 2011. a semantic rule check- ing environment for building performance checking. autom. constr. 20 (5): 506518. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2010.11.017. pestian, j. p., l. deleger, g. k. savova, j. w. dexheimer, and i. solti. 2012. natural language processingthe basics. in pediatric biomedical informatics, 149172. dordrecht, netherlands: springer. preidel, c., and a. borrmann. 2015. automated code compliance check- ing based on a visual language and building information modeling. in proc., 32nd int. symp. of automation and robotics in construction and mining, international association for automation & robotics in construction (iaarc), 256263. london: international association for automation and robotics in construction. qi, j., r. r. a. issa, s. olbina, and j. hinze. 2014. use of building information modeling in design to prevent construction worker falls. j. comput. civ. eng. 28 (5): a4014008. https://doi.org/10.1061/%28 asce%29cp.1943-5487.0000365. robbins, a., l. lamb, and e. hannah. 2008. learning the vi and vim editors. 7th ed. sebastopol, ca: oreilly. smartreview. 2021. smartreview. accessed june 16, 2021. https:// smartreview.biz/home. smc (solibri model checker). 2009. development of solibri model checker (smc) accessibility rules set for checking building information models. accessed may 17, 2017. http://www.universell-utforming .miljo.no/file_upload/statsbygg_smc_accessibility.pdf. solihin, w., and c. eastman. 2016. a knowledge representation approach in bim rule requirement analysis using the conceptual graph. j. inf. technol. construct. 21 (21): 370401. sydora, c., and e. stroulia. 2020. rule-based compliance checking and generative design for building interiors using bim. autom. constr. 120 (dec): 103368. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103368. tan, x., a. hammad, and p. fazio. 2010. automated code compliance checking for building envelope design. j. comput. civ. eng. 24 (2): 203211. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)0887-3801(2010)24:2(203). usdoe. 2018. software and web tools. accessed may 29, 2018. https:// www.energycodes.gov/software-tools. vieira, r., and m. poesio. 2000. an empirically based system for process- ing definite descriptions. comput. ling. 26 (4): 538593. https://doi .org/10.1162/089120100750105948. wilson, e. b. 1927. probable inference, the law of succession, and stat- istical inference. j. am. stat. assoc. 22 (158): 209212. https://doi.org /10.2307/2276774. wimalasuriya, d. c., and d. j. dou. 2010. ontology-based information extraction: an introduction and a survey of current approaches. j. inf. sci. 36 (3): 306323. https://doi.org/10.1177/0165551509360123. xu, n., l. ma, l. wang, y. deng, and g. ni. 2021. extracting domain knowledge elements of construction safety management: rule-based language processing. j. manage. approach using chinese natural eng. 37 (2): 04021001. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)me.1943-5479 .0000870. xue, x. r., and j. zhang. 2021. part-of-speech tagging of building codes empowered by deep learning and transformational rules. adv. eng. inf. 47 (jan): 101235. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2020.101235. zhang, j., and n. m. el-gohary. 2013. semantic nlp-based information extraction from construction regulatory documents for automated com- pliance checking. j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (2): 04015014. https://doi .org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000346. zhang, j., and n. m. el-gohary. 2017. integrating semantic nlp and logic reasoning into a unified system for fully-automated code check- ing. autom. constr. 73 (jan): 4557. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2016.08.027. zhang, r., and n. el-gohary. 2021. a deep neural network-based method for deep information extraction using transfer learning strategies to support automated compliance checking. autom. constr. 132 (dec): 103834. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103834. zhong, b. t., l. y. ding, h. b. luo, y. zhou, y. z. hu, and h. m. hu. 2012. ontology-based semantic modeling of regulation constraint for automated construction quality compliance checking. autom. constr. 28 (dec): 5870. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon .2012.06.006. zhong, b. t., x. j. xing, h. b. luo, q. r. zhou, h. li, t. rose, and w. l. fang. 2020. deep learning-based extraction of construction procedural constraints from construction regulations. adv. eng. inf. 43 (jan): 101003. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2019.101003. zhou, h., s. lee, and h. ying. 2018. vpl-based code translation for au- tomated compliance checking of building envelope energy efficiency. in proc., 2018 asce construction research congress (crc), 112. reston, va: asce. zhou, p., and n. el-gohary. 2016. ontology-based multilabel text classification of construction regulatory documents. j. comput. civ. eng. 30 (4): 04015058. https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487 .0000530. zhou, p., and n. el-gohary. 2017. ontology-based automated information extraction from building energy conservation codes. autom. constr. 74 (feb): 103117. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2016.09.004.  asce 04022025-14 j. comput. civ. eng. j. comput. civ. eng., 2022, 36(5): 04022025 downloaded from ascelibrary.org by birmingham city university on 07/07/25. copyright asce. for personal use only; all rights reserved.

==== TABLES ====
2.3 mineral-wool board insulation a. manufacturers: subject to compliance with requirements, provide products by one of the following: 1. fibrex insulations inc. 2. isolatek international. 3. owens corning. 4. roxul inc. 5. thermafiber. d. form mw-2 : foil-faced, semi-rigid mineral-wool board insulation of thickness indicated with width and length as required to suit job conditions: astm c612, type 1a; faced on one side with foil-scrim or foil-scrim-polyethylene vapor retarder having maximum permeance of 0.10 perm (5.75 x 10-9 g/pa x s x m2) when tested in accordance with astm e96; with maximum flame-spread and smoke-developed indexes of 25 and 5, respectively, per astm e84. 1. minimum thermal resistivity (r) of 4.3 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in. (29.8 k x m/w) at mean temperature of 75 degrees f (24 degrees c). 2. nominal density of 4 lb/cu. ft. (64 kg/cu. m), types ia and ib, thermal resistivity of 4 deg f x h x sq. ft./btu x in. at 75 deg f (27.7 k x m/w at 24 deg c).
==== IMAGES ====
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page1_img1.png
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page1_img2.png
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page1_img3.png
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page6_img1.png
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page6_img2.png
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page7_img1.jpeg
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page8_img1.png
Semantic Information Extraction of Energy Requirements from Contract Specifications_page10_img1.png

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications_page1_img3.png --- check for updates --- text from semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications_page6_img1.png --- line . number lod tagging rule no. 1 explanation 1 beginning of feature pattern 2 token.string .token.string the first token must be a period or a colon, which is an incompleteness feature 3 cc the next token may be an optional coordinating conjunction 4 token.string dotoken.string not the next two tokens may be an optional phrase do not 5 rb the next token may be an optional adverb 6 nn the next token may be an optional singular or mass noun 7 vb, token.string provide, token.string include, token.string refer, the candidate action verb must token.string comply, token.string conform, token.string furnish, 1 be a base form verb or a non-3rd person singular present token.string see, token.string use, token.string do, token.string verb and be, token.string pass, vb within paragraphtitle 2 not be in the list of exclusion verbs provide, include, vbp, token.string provide, token.string include, token.string refer, refer, comply, conform, furnish, see, use, do, be, pass and token.string comply, token.string conform, token.string furnish, 3 not be part of a paragraph title. token.string see, token.string use, token.string do, token.string a tag temptag is assigned to each candidate be, token.string pass, vbp within paragraphtitletemptag 8 token.kind punctuation, token.category md, paragraphnumber the token immediately after a candidate must not be a punctuation, modal verb or paragraph number 9 token, token.string , token.category md, token.string are, any of the next four consecutive tokens must not be a colon, token.string is, paragraphnumber4 modal verb, are, is, or paragraph number 10 end of feature pattern 11 -- the boundary of feature pattern 12 temptag.actionverb rule lod tagging rule no. 1 the candidates that match the feature pattern are action verbs, and are tagged as actionverb --- text from semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications_page6_img2.png --- 2.2 sprayed fire-resistive materials a. sfrm manufacturers standard, factory-mixed, lightweight, dry formulation, complying with indicated fire resistance design, and mixed with water at project site to form a slurry or mortar before conveyance and application. 1. products subject to compliance with requirements, provide one of the following a. grace, w. r. co. - conn. grace construction products monokote mk-6 series. b. isolatek international cafco 300. c. southwest fireproofing products co. type 5gp. e e e 6. combustion characteristics astm e136. 7. surface-burning characteristics comply with astm e84 testing by a qualified testing agency. identify products with appropriate markings of applicable testing agency. a. flame-spread index 10 or less. b. smoke-developed index 10 or less. --- text from semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications_page7_img1.jpeg --- - commercialbuildingenergyefficiencyconcept b buildingelectricalsystemenergyefficiencyconcept - building envelope energyefficiencyconcept buildingelement - buildinginsulationmaterial battinsulationmaterial blanketinsulationmaterial - boardinsulationmaterial - fibrous board - glass-fiberboard dark-surfacedglass-fiberboard - foil-facedglass-fiberboard - foil-facedflexibleglass-fiberboard foil-facedrigidgiass-fiberboard - foil-facedsemi-rigidglass-fiberboard - unfacedglass-fiberboard unfacedflexibleglass-fiberboard - unfacedrigidglass-fiberboard unfacedsemi-rigidglass-fiberboard - mineralwoolboard - foil-facedmineralwoolboard - foil-facedflexiblemineralwoolboard foil-facedrigidmineralwoolboard foil-facedsemi-rigidmineralwoolboard - unfacedmineralwoolboard unfacedflexiblemineralwoolboard - unfacedrigidmineralwoolboard - unfacedsemi-rigidmineralwoolboard m formboard loose-fillinsulationmaterial sprayforminsulationmaterial --- text from semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications_page8_img1.png --- depends on quantity unitreference depends on depends on depends on quantity restriction quantity value depends on depends on po comparative relation depends on depends on depends on subject deontic operator indicator quantitative relation 6 depends on subject restriction depends on compliance checking attribute sequence of extraction --- text from semantic information extraction of energy requirements from contract specifications_page10_img1.png --- dependency information incompleteness feature a must be preceded by a a must be followed by a cardinal number , comma, colon, or semicolon ------------- --- p ------- a. item 1 busway x astm c612, type 1a 1b. astm c612, type 1a 1b. x c. auxiliary contacts, rated 10 a, c. auxiliary contacts, rated 10 a, c. auxiliary contacts, rated 10 a, 250 vac, shall be provided, 250 vac, shall be provided, 250 vac, shall be provided, extraction rule cd unit.cr token.string , token.string token.string cr.quantityunitreference. where, e cd is the domain-specific tag for cardinal numbers e.g., 10, which is the dependency information. e unit is the tag of measurement unit gazetteer including the ampere unit a. cr is the pointer set to the unit, indicating that the matched measurement unit should be extracted as an instance of quantity unitreference. e matches a disjunctive relationship. the pattern token.string , token.string token.string matches a comma, colon, or semicolon, which is an incompleteness feature.
