==== TEXT ====
contents lists available at sciencedirect automation in construction journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/autcon tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims christopher rausch a, *, saeed talebi b, mani poshdar c, beidi li d, carl schultz d a department of civil and environmental engineering, university of waterloo, waterloo, canada b school of engineering and the built environment, birmingham city university, birmingham, uk c department of built environment engineering, auckland university of technology, auckland, new zealand d department of electrical and computer engineering, aarhus university, aarhus, denmark a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t keywords: domain model dependency structure matrix tolerance management building information model tolerance analysis risk management dimensional variability of components and assemblies in construction can lead to significant defects, rework, and project risk if not managed effectively. given the complexity of using tolerance management to control dimensional variability, an automated bim-based approach is highly propitious, while currently elusive. this paper develops the first iteration of a domain model for tolerance management (tolerancedm) using two case study examples within the domain of building construction. the results are shown to (1) consolidate the scat- tered, disparate existing knowledge and research on tolerance management into a single standardised, uniform framework, and (2) formalise this knowledge so that it can be unambiguously interpreted and parsed into software systems for automated tolerance management in construction. tolerancedm functions as a key step towards benchmarking process capabilities, computing tolerance compliance automatically, and enabling in- field communication of tolerance requirements. future research should explore case studies in different con- struction domains, along with developing an improved abduction framework and integrating as-built project data for tolerance compliance checking. 1. introduction the impacts of dimensional variability are well documented in literature, yet continue to be a source of rework, cost-overruns, delays, and litigation on construction projects. frequent examples reveal how poor project performance can be directly tied to improper consideration and control of dimensional variability [14]. in severe cases, these im- pacts can completely halt projects and be the single largest contributor to cost and time overruns [5]. tolerance management has emerged within the construction industry as a dependable practice for ensuring dimensional variability is controlled within allowable limits [68]. state-of-the-art for tolerance management in construction is still manual and tedious, eliciting an extensive understanding of theory that is perceived as difficult to implement in practice [9]. as a result, it can sometimes be deemed more cost-effective to not allocate any resources or consideration for proper tolerance management and opt to solve dimensional conflicts reactively in-situ as and when they occur [10]. however, this can significantly increase a projects risk exposure [11]. tolerance management is focused on employing a set of methods [12] to (1) minimise defects associated with dimensional and geometric variability (called tolerance issues hereafter) in a prescient manner [11,13], and (2) to ensure constructability of components and assem- blies [3]. the ultimate aim of tolerance management is to minimise resources spent to modify tolerance issues and ensure structural safety, constructability, aesthetics, and functionality of buildings. these can only be achieved if more judicious decisions are made upstream in the process rather than downstream once construction activities have commenced [6]. despite its potential value, tolerance management is currently beset by taxing manual activities, which are not conducive for use on most construction projects. automated tolerance management has the potential to reduce bar- riers for application in practice, can be applied proactively, and builds the foundation for advanced tolerance optimisation methods. motiva- tion for automated tolerance management is evident when considering the requirements of emerging technologies and processes in construc- tion. the proliferation of a fully autonomous or robotic construction site requires codified design rules and assembly processes that cannot be based on manual methods for resolving dimensional variability conflicts (i.e., trial and error or rules of thumb practices) [14]. for instance, large- scale additive manufacturing is highly time-sensitive and the final ge- ometry is based on complex design and process parameters [15]. for such processes, researchers have recently demonstrated the efficacy of * corresponding author. e-mail address: chris.rausch@uwaterloo.ca (c. rausch). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2022.104394 received 28 january 2021; received in revised form 26 may 2022; accepted 31 may 2022 automationinconstruction141(2022)104394availableonline16june20220926-5805/2022elsevierb.v.allrightsreserved. c. rausch et al. applying tolerance management principles for characterizing, analysing and controlling the adverse effects of dimensional variability in a pre- scient manner [16]. saidi et al. [17] also argue that the state of robotics in construction faces an uphill battle due, in part, to the absence of proper tolerance management. given the necessity for robotic systems to rely on and employ digital information, an automated tolerance man- agement system is essential for further advancing the state of automa- tion in construction. in order to deploy automated tolerance management in construction, it is first necessary to have a semantically enriched building information model (bim) that contains necessary information about tolerances. since a generalisable process for such semantic enrichment is currently elusive, this paper presents a novel tolerance domain model (i.e., a structured collection of tolerance concepts and relationships between those concepts, similar to the notion of a schema, or ontology) for use in construction. this model, herein referred to as tolerancedm, collects, classifies, and evaluates information from the academic literature, codes of practice, design standards (specifically for steel and concrete), and expert knowledge. the basic function of tolerancedm is to take an initial bim and to enrich relevant tolerance information into it using pre-defined rules, a design structure matrix for describing connection points and an infer- ence engine for integrating risk. in doing so, tolerancedm addresses three prevailing challenges facing automated tolerance management in construction. first, it serves as a centralized mechanism for collecting disparate tolerance management knowledge (such generated knowledge is currently siloed across projects). second, it functions as a generaliz- able framework that can be applied across a broad range of construction projects. third, it explores the required level of development (lod) in a bim for initiating various tolerance management tasks (e.g., tolerance analysis). lod is a specification schema that prescribes generally agreed-upon levels of development of a bim. it is intended to be used to improve the communication of 3d information contained within a bim. within the context of prescribing tolerances, the building information modelling lod is particularly important since each lod (i.e., there are six general levels: lod 100, lod 200, lod 300, lod 350, lod 400, and lod 500) prescribes distinct subtleties in terms of object features, geo- metric envelope accuracy, internal sub-components, and connection detail fidelity [18]. for clarity, this paper refers to the lod specification framework developed by bimforum [19], which is initially based on the schema developed by the american institute of architects. the presented approach of tolerancedm in this paper is shown to scale to real-world, large-scale bims. in addition, the range of query features in tolerancedm provide new critical information about toler- ance sensitivity between specific components that supports construction planning. the direct beneficiaries for tolerancedm will be practitioners whose work centres on the modelling of assembly connections, simu- lation of construction sequencing, and risk managers who need to make informed decisions about product and process design in construction. once operational, tolerancedm will also serve as the foundation for automated tolerance management, unlocking new frontiers for auton- omous and robotic construction processes. this paper is structured as follows. section 2 provides background information on the current state of tolerance management in construc- tion. section 3 provides the methodology used for developing toler- ancedm. section 4 details the step-by-step implementation of this methodology and section 5 carries out a functional demonstration on two projects (a small simple structure and a large, complex commercial building). finally, section 6 provides conclusions and next steps for research. 2. background ontologies used to describe concepts in tolerance management in construction can be verbose; stemming largely from the dense body of knowledge used for product tolerancing in manufacturing, and from separate attempts in recent decades to apply it to construction [57,12]. for clarity, this paper presents a condensed overview of tolerance management, along with key definitions, which are elaborated upon in the following sections. 2.1. related work on tolerance ontologies in mechanical product design numerous research efforts have developed ontological approaches for representing and reasoning about tolerances in the field of me- chanical product design. what has not been undertaken, to the best of our knowledge, is an ontological account of tolerances in the context of construction. it is useful and important to draw analogies between the two domains in an effort to reuse and adapt knowledge capture ap- proaches, although the kinds of knowledge, the impacts of tolerance, and how tolerance information can be used for decision support is significantly different. most ontology-based approaches in product design are used (at various design stages) for partially or fully specifying tolerances, allo- cating numerical tolerance values (e.g., [2023]), and for facilitating interoperability between design tools (e.g., [24,25]). in [21] the authors use case-based reasoning to automate the specification of tolerances to mechanical parts in a design, and to automatically allocate (numerical) tolerance values. in [22] the authors use ontological reasoning to automatically specify tolerances to parts on a mechanical design at a very early design stage  notably even before geometric details have been committed to. in mechanical assembly design, considerable attention is given to the variety of prototype shapes that products take (e.g., surfaces being spherical, cylindrical, planar, helical, revolute, prismatic) and the im- plications in terms of positional tolerances, how surfaces can have contact, etc. [20]. in construction, there is far less variety in the shape categories of products, and less variety in the ways that typical products have contact. indeed, for most of the operational lifetime of various products, two products having contact does not directly imply phys- ical contact, as products bend, expand, contract, and stretch. simply knowing that the positioning of two products is highly sensitive can greatly assist during the construction of a building, i.e., special care can then be taken to ensure the proper placement of the two products, as specific kinds of deviation may have costly ramifications at a later stage in construction. 2.2. variations and tolerances components in construction are specified with geometric dimensions and key material properties. while nominal dimensions are communi- cated during design, when components and assemblies are constructed, dimensions cannot be achieved with 100% accuracy. the discrepancy or deviation between the nominal and actual dimension is defined as a dimensional variation [26,27]. the acceptable amount of this variability is defined as the tolerance of a geometric entity (e.g., width, length, height, etc.) or installed position of a component [8,28,29]. in some cases, a distinction is made between a dimensional tolerance (limit placed on size), and geometric tolerance (limit placed on form such as straightness or waviness). within product tolerancing, variations and tolerances are distinguished between features of an object (e.g., surface, edge, or profile), or the relationship between objects within an assem- bly. for clarity, this paper consolidates these aspects of tolerance man- agement as intra-object tolerances (i.e., within or related to one object) and inter-object tolerances (i.e., between or related to multiple objects in an assembly). these two aspects are known as tolerance sensitive relations hereafter. dimensional and geometric variability is the result of many inter- acting factors; material-related and process-related [3032]. during design, it is important to ensure that components are properly toler- anced, such that when aggregated, they can fit together properly. the design must also account for the unique types of construction methods automationinconstruction141(2022)1043942 c. rausch et al. employed (e.g., variations range from less than a millimetre for many factory-made components to several centimetres for many in-situ com- ponents) [8,33]. the physical aggregation process also induces geo- metric variations since gravity loads of the building gradually increase during the construction process, potentially resulting in building set- tlement, movement, and deformation [34]. afford such a process to be both holistic (as the use of bim becomes ubiquitous in construction) and automated (as emerging technologies are increasingly digitized). tolerance management is most effective when applied proactively during the design stage. this paper exploits such an approach using a domain model that can be universally applied and in a highly automated manner. 2.3. risks associated with dimensional and geometric variations 3. methodology for developing the tolerance management domain model (tolerancedm) in light of the intricacies of dimensional and geometric variability, talebi et al. [35] suggest that effective tolerance management should manage key risks that occur in connections comprising two or more components. rausch et al. [36] summarize these key risks as being related safety, constructability, aesthetics, and functionality. structural to structural safety risk relates to dimensional variations that change the load resistance or stability of a structure and examples include column eccentricity, misaligned connections, and mispositioned rebar. con- structability risk relates to the dimensional variations which affect the aggregation quality between mating parts and assemblies. at the part level, there are two extreme cases of poor constructability resulting from dimensional variability: (1) a part is too large to connect into its intended interface(s), and (2) a part is too small to connect properly into its intended interface(s). aesthetics risk relates to dimensional variations that impact the perceived quality of a completed assembly, and often occurs from visible misalignments between connecting parts and com- ponents. finally, functionality risk relates to dimensional variations that impact the intended performance or serviceability of an assembly. this is best observed in structural design, where a strict limit is placed on floor deflections. while certain deflections may not negatively impact the structural integrity of a floor, serviceability limit states ensure that occupants do not feel unsafe. 2.4. state of tolerance management in construction the state of tolerance management has been traditionally beset by reactive practices. in recent years however, several proactive methods have been developed. penalty-incentive schemes across trades and optimal arrangement of interchangeable components can reduce tolerance-based risk [2]. such schemes provide limited efficacy how- ever, since systemic interaction of geometry between components cannot purely be solved during production and aggregation of compo- nents. a more efficacious approach is needed to perform mitigation during design and to subsequently communicate tolerances effectively. several comprehensive design approaches have been previously pro- posed including strict-vs-loose tolerance allocation strategies, kinematic chain-based dimensional variation analysis and monte carlo simulation [10,13,37]. other studies [6,9,28] have attempted to develop processes by which tolerance management methods can be applied in a consoli- dated and systematic manner. for example, talebi [12] proposed the tolerance management system (tms) by which already developed methods are divided into five categories, namely identification of tolerance requirements and risks, planning the achievement of tolerance requirements and risks, communication of tolerance information, tolerance compliance method, and learning and documentation. in tms, the identification of critical connections is of prime importance. how- ever, this approach lacks the implementation in the real world to eval- uate its practicality. also, its full implementation is onerous without automation as it contains many manual tasks. unfortunately, effective tolerance management is still elusive in many spheres of construction due to the practical barriers facing implementation of existing methods. often, solutions predicated on manual processes are developed for very specific project demands. as such, there is a need for a holistic process that can be universally applied and that does not warrant extensive background knowledge as required in existing approaches. this is particularly where the use of bim can this research study develops a domain model (dm) for tolerance management. the idef5 methodology for knowledge engineering and ontology development [38] is used for the development of the toler- ancedm in this research study. it is emphasized that while idef5 knowledge capture development process is adopted, express is used as the data model specification language in line with industry standards such as the industry foundation classes. idef5 is organized into five stages of domain model development: (1) organisation and scoping, (2) data collection, (3) data analysis, (4) initial domain model development, and (5) refinement and validation. the following subsections elaborate on how these stages have been undertaken. 3.1. organisation and scoping in this study, the scope of the dm is specifically directed towards new building construction projects, as demonstrated by the presented case study. however, tolerancedm is general in nature and has the potential to be readily adapted to any kind of construction project. the long-term agenda of this work is the development of a meta-model that captures a more abstract structure of tolerance concepts that are common across a broader scope of construction domains (e.g., bridges, tunnels, geotech- nical fields, etc.). the core pre-requisite for implementing this method is an initial bim with sufficient lod at key connection points between components, where tolerance relations are prone to certain types of project risk (e.g., structural safety, constructability, etc.). as such, tol- erancedm is agnostic to aggregation between strictly new construction or between new and in-situ construction (e.g., prefabricated components being used in a building renovation/adaptation project  such projects are often prone to tolerance issues due to varying levels of dimensional variability which must be suitably mediated). for the purpose of demonstrating the initial architecture of tolerancedm however, this paper focuses specifically on new building construction projects. 3.2. data collection the authors of this paper have collectively undertaken six case studies (previously), in which manifold types of tolerance issues were encountered for the following projects: an industrial pipe rack assembly [13], two 805 m2 modular data centres [36], a small-scale steel bridge [39], a 7500 m2 commercial building [40], a 2.3 ha terraced warehouse [40] and a small accessory dwelling unit [41]. these case studies pro- vide valuable tolerance management related information pertaining to a mixed set of project delivery methods (i.e., prefabricated versus in-situ), assembly size, complexity, location, and typology (i.e., commercial, industrial, residential, infrastructure). the tolerance issues identified in these case studies also represent a broad range of defects associated with dimensional variability, including misalignment between structural components, aesthetically unacceptable gaps between structural and non-structural components, and lack of fit in structural frames. data for developing tolerancedm is based on these previous case studies, as well as information extracted from other existing journal articles for tolerance management in construction [3,6,9]. as such, tolerancedm is built upon existing literature that covers concepts from four domains, namely: architecture, engineering, manufacturing, and construction project management. the purpose of the literature review was to identify the underlying concepts and principles of tolerance automationinconstruction141(2022)1043943 c. rausch et al. management, and to identify the relevant state-of-the-art solutions to automate tolerance management. tolerance issues identified in the case studies were categorised based on three areas with high tolerance risks, namely (a) the connection be- tween the building structure and the building envelope, (b) the connection between the building structure and internal components, and (c) where stringent tolerances should be specified in the internal area of the building, as suggested by talebi et al. [40]. this categori- zation helped the authors gain a better understanding of the type of tolerance issues in each specific area. afterwards, the identified solu- tions in the literature were divided into four areas: (a) identification of tolerance requirements/risks, (b) planning the achievement of tolerance requirements/mitigating tolerance risks, (c) communication of toler- ance information, and (d) tolerance compliance control, as proposed by [42]. in this paper, solutions addressing identifying tolerance re- quirements/risks as well as communication of tolerance information were considered when developing tolerancedm. 3.3. data analysis after collecting initial information regarding tolerance management, the authors began to analyse and structure the core principles into a cohesive framework. two types of criteria proposed by talebi et al. [43] and hong and chang [44] were initially found to categorise the overall framework developed in this research. the terminologies needed to create the framework were categorised based on the concepts of geo- metric dimensioning and tolerancing (gd&t) and the tolerance risks proposed by rausch et al. [36]. gd&t is a symbolic ontology [29] that communicates permitted deviations in form, size, orientation, and location of features (e.g., size or surface) for a component [45]. gd&t is also used to define relationships between components within an overall product (i.e., assembly), and has become the de-facto ontology for dimensional specification within the manufacturing industry [46]. the application of gd&t in construction has been recently demonstrated by talebi et al. [42], which consists of a condensed set of principles more suited to construction processes. while analysing data for the proposed framework, three industry experts on tolerance management were consulted with using a set of semi-structured interviews. these industry experts have the following backgrounds: expert a is an internationally renowned building infor- mation modelling consulting expert with experience in design, standards development, and technology management, expert b is a manager with experience in offsite construction, and expert c a project manager with a background on industrial and commercial assemblies. collectively, these experts provide a rich set of experiences on the design, inspection of, and implementation of tolerance management practices in con- struction projects across europe and north america, predominately within large aec firms. two semi-structured interviews were held with each expert (during the development process); each ranging in length between 30 and 60 min. through this consultation, the following criteria were selected for the framework: identification of tolerance risks, specification of tolerance values, tolerance analysis, tolerance allocation, and communication of tolerance information. these criteria were selected using external expertise to ensure the developed domain model remained pragmatic and relevant to current industry practice. 3.4. model development process tolerancedm was developed incrementally using refinement cycles consisting of concept brainstorming, mapping, and organisation into inheritance hierarchies, and then reviewing against a body of case studies. the development team (i.e., the authors) serve as five multi- disciplinary experts with the following backgrounds: two with a back- ground in knowledge engineering and artificial intelligence for aec, two experts on tolerance management in construction with backgrounds in dimensional inspection consulting, and one with a background in simulation, expert elicitation systems and construction innovation. as a key driving motivation towards automated tolerance management in construction, the authors have developed proof of concept software tools for tolerance management in parallel with the development of the dm. with respect to scoping, in the first version of tolerancedm, miti- gation is only incorporated into the meta-model (i.e., introduced as concepts at the highest level of abstraction). as such, mitigation con- cepts have not been as fully developed as other aspects of tolerancedm, as reflected in their superficial treatment in the description of toler- ancedm workflow processes (section 4) and the integration of toler- ancedm into the ifc standard. in future iterative refinement cycles these aspects will be dealt with in significantly more depth. 3.5. refinement and validation the initial validation process consisted of collecting feedback from three external experts using semi-structured interviews. prototype analysis tools are validated on bims from real buildings (rather than purely conceptual models) to ensure that the dm is practical and applicable to real-world construction projects. this drives the develop- ment of the dm with the inclusion of concepts that are determined to be valuable or necessary to undertake the analysis tasks required by the cases and helps to refine the dm by ensuring that redundant or unused concepts can be highlighted and removed, ensuring that the dm is lean and pragmatic. as a result of the feedback and instantiation of dm classes through real projects, the model was refined and queried to ensure responses were both valid and adequate. 4. tolerance management domain model (tolerancedm) as outlined in fig. 1, the proposed workflow for tolerancedm takes an initial bim and through a sequence of inference rules based on expert knowledge about identifying, assessing, and mitigating tolerance- related risks, automatically parses key tolerance relationships to create a semantically rich bim with tolerance management concepts such as tolerance categories and mitigation strategies. the enriched bim can then be used to perform a series of useful analyses and simulations to conduct and support effective tolerance management. for clarity, the scope of this present research is on the development of the dm and practical direct use-cases, which is essential to move towards automated tolerance management and can be considered as a starting point for similar research efforts. a more comprehensive examination and demonstration of potential use-cases of bims enriched through toler- ancedm will be addressed in future work. more concretely, the current workflow utilising tolerancedm is divided into two processes, each illustrated as business process model notation diagrams in figs. 2 and 3. the bpmn swim lanes (large, rounded marquee rectangles) denote the division of roles between different actors, and bpmn activities (small, rounded rectangle boxes) and artefacts (dog-eared boxes) detail which knowledge is available at each stage in the two processes. the first process (fig. 2) is undertaken by bim engineers at an organisational (company) level. initially the organisation develops their own custom, tailored risk-based dependency structure matrix (dsm) that express the tolerances specific to the projects that they are involved in. we envision in the future that this step will be significantly supported through a community-wide effort in developing open libraries of tem- plate dsms that capture domain specific knowledge about common tolerance sensitive relations between specific building features. toler- ancedm provides the modelling language building blocks that de- scribes the classes of tolerance sensitivity, the current version of which we present in section 4, especially table 1 and figs. 4 and 6. next, bim engineers specify a mapping between bim products and their in-house custom product types. that is, we determined through our case study of the oastler building that many critical tolerance automationinconstruction141(2022)1043944 c. rausch et al. fig. 1. overall workflow for the tolerance management domain model (tolerancedm). fig. 2. bpmn diagram illustrating the first workflow process for utilising tolerancedm. organisations develop, maintain, and iteratively refine dsm and feature maps to be used in the second workflow process. relationships exist between product types that did not align well with the bim data exchange format that was used (e.g., slabs that formed parts of the foundation, and a particular architectural feature referred to as fins in the oastler building). thus, from the perspective of toler- ancedm, rather than tying the identification of products in the dsm to a particular bim standard (e.g., ifc), the workflow introduces an addi- tional abstraction layer in which an organisation maps bim products into their own custom types. in principle, this is an optional step and an organisation may opt for a 1-to-1 relationship between product types in their dsm and the underlying bim standard. the dsm and product mapping artefacts are subsequently iteratively refined during and be- tween projects. the second process (fig. 3) is undertaken by bim engineers on a project-specific level. the two output artefacts from the first workflow process, namely the dsm and feature map, are combined with the bim of a particular project at hand in order to generate the project-specific set of tolerance sensitive relations between products. this is accomplished automatically by the tolerancedm reasoning engine; in this paper we have developed a prototype system as a proof of concept, and to demonstrate analysis functionality provided by our tolerancedm approach. the newly created tolerance sensitive information is specifically expressed in the form of new bim relationships injected into the model: new instances of the class tolerance sensitive relation that hold be- tween various products in the bim. the particular subclass relationship determines the refined semantics of the tolerance relationship, as detailed in figs. 4 and 6 and table 1. based on these new relationships, various metrics are computed that provide building information modelling engineers and project managers with new information about the planned construction from the perspective of tolerance sensitivity. the analysis is tailored by the building information modelling engineers in the form of tolerance queries (or filters), which we exemplify in the case study in section 5. in this study we propose a rule-based reasoning approach and a prototype software system for deriving, querying, and analysing toler- ance relationships in large-scale bim models. we demonstrate the practical aspects of our implementation on a real use case and emphasize configurable rule encodings so they can be easily adapted to general automationinconstruction141(2022)1043945 c. rausch et al. fig. 3. bpmn diagram illustrating the second workflow process for utilising tolerancedm with respect to a specific project. table 1 information expressed in the tolerancedm tolerance sensitive relation class, adapted from gd&t ontology [48]. tolerance type characteristics datum reqd? applications size: spatial extent dimensions of an entity form: the shape of a surface straightness: allowed deviation of a surface along a line orientation: relationship between features and datums at particular angles location: position of the feature relative to a datum flatness perpendicularity (surface): variation allowed over a form being parallel to the datum plane parallelism: variation allowed over an entire plane, from being parallel to the reference plane tolerance of position (top): allowed deviation of a features axis from the true position no no no yes yes yes to control dimensions of any component to control the beams and columns that are prone to deformation to control the flatness of floor surfaces to control components for which plumbness tolerances are a major concern to control surfaces that should maintain a constant distance to control (1) the location of features of size such as columns and beams, and (2) the distance between those features of size tolerance management scenarios. 4.1. an abstract structure of tolerance management in this section, definitions are provided for the most general concepts and their relations with respect to tolerance management (from an ontological perspective), and a selection of class refinements derived from literature and other resources described in section 3. this provides a conceptual language for semantically enriching a bim, and subse- quently facilitating tolerance management querying and analysis. as illustrated in fig. 4, the most abstract structure of tolerance management concepts consists of tolerance sensitive relations that hold between bim entities via spatial relations. if such a relation holds be- tween entities, then deviations during manufacturing, placement, and aggregation of those entities beyond a threshold will have a specific, negative impact on the overall project. in this research, the term bim entity is further discretized into components (i.e., construction objects that aggregate into assemblies), and component-parts, herein referred to as parts (i.e., specific geometric aspects of a component such as the top surface of a beam). the definition of which entities are in a tolerance sensitive relation is the formalisation of knowledge from the tolerance community. for example, as shown in fig. 5:  the notion that deviations in the placement of two adjacent slabs can result in a dangerously large gap is expressed by assigning a (binary) tolerance sensitive relation between slabs that meet flush horizon- tally (i.e., vertical faces of the defining geometries touch, or have external contact).  the notion that deviations in the parallel alignment of two beams that frame an opening for a door can result in the door no longer fitting is expressed by assigning tolerance sensitive relations between any two beam entities (the entity types) that both have spatial contact (the spatial relation) with the same door entity.  the notion that deviations in the flatness of a slab can result in un- warranted slopes for mobility impaired patients in a hospital is expressed by assigning (unary) tolerance sensitive relations to slabs in locations occupied by such patients. these tolerance relations are introduced into a bim on the same ontological level as other entity relations such as contact between two entities that have physical contact, or voids object between a wall and an opening i.e., a region of empty space. the arity of a tolerance sensitive relation specifies the number of entities between which the relation holds. a unary relation holds over a single entity, equivalent to the concept of an entity property, e.g., the tolerance sensitive quality of slab flatness is modelled as a unary tolerance sensitive relation holding over individual slabs. each tolerance sensitive relation has attributes of provenance and risk:  provenance refers to the source of the tolerance sensitive relation class: normal (derived from guidelines and standards); special (based automationinconstruction141(2022)1043946 c. rausch et al. fig. 4. abstract structure of high-level tolerance management concepts. fig. 5. demonstrating how tolerance sensitive entities can be formalized. on expert input for certain parts); specific (based on expert input for the entire building structure) [47].  risk refers to the frequency and impact of tolerance conflicts. foundations and walls, and dependencies between component parts such as the top surface of foundations in contact with the lower surfaces of a wall. each tolerance sensitive relation is associated with:  tolerance constraints that define the limits within which deviations will not result in risk category impacts, as defined in sections 2.1 and 2.2. table 1 presents further details on the information captured in the tolerance class, adapted from the gd&t ontology [48]. in table 1, the concept of datum as part of gd&t refers to a theoreti- cally exact axis, point or plane from which the geometric charac- teristics or location of a feature (e.g., size or surface) are established [29].  risk category effects that result from tolerance conflicts, as defined in section 2.2, consisting of a risk type (structural safety, construct- ability, aesthetic, functionality) qualitative measures of severity and likelihood (low, medium, high, extreme).  mitigation strategies that can be employed to alleviate the impact of risk categories in case of tolerance conflicts. in the following sections, we define particular refinements (sub- classes) of the tolerance sensitive relation class. 4.2. tolerance interdependency matrix to capture the interdependency of components and parts with respect to tolerances, a dependency structure matrix is used. this matrix is referred to as the tolerance interdependency matrix since it outlines the direct relationships within and between components and parts. the tool is versatile with respect to the lod that components are related, e.g., it is used to express dependencies between component types such as assembly components and parts are listed both in the rows and columns of the matrix. each component and part are represented with p with subscript t indicating the component type the symbolic notation ct and superscript p indicating the part. if there is any physical connection (i.e., joint or interface) between the component (and part) at row i, and component (and part) at column j, the interrelated cell is filled with a value according to its tolerance type; otherwise, it is filled with 0. the types of tolerances considered here include flatness (f), parallelism (pa), positional (po), and perpendicularity (pe). the process of capturing tolerance interdependency can be formalized algebraically as follows. first, let m denote an n  n tolerance interdependency matrix, and let mij denote the tolerance interdependency at the i-th row and j-th column, for i, j  , such that 1  i,j  n. for all i, j from 1 to n:  mij  {f, pa, po, pe}, if ci has a tolerance interdependence with cj.  mij = 0, otherwise the rows and columns are ordered according to the temporal sequencing in which components are installed with respect to preceding components. the matrix, when populated with binary relations, is not necessarily symmetric because the sequence of installation/erection of components is also being captured. furthermore, tolerance in- terdependencies which are self-intersecting can be used to denote that a component or part has an intra-object tolerance relation (e.g., flatness). once the matrix is populated and the interdependencies are captured, a final additional step is to colour the cells based on predefined levels of risk which can be defined by (1) the collective decision of project representatives responsible for tolerance management, and/or by (2) predetermined risk of connections found from the literature [13]. automationinconstruction141(2022)1043947 c. rausch et al. the basis of this risk colorization is representative of adversarial impacts on structural safety, constructability, aesthetics, and functionality. for instance, red denotes high tolerance risk, orange denotes medium tolerance risk, and green denotes low tolerance risk. based on this categorization, it is possible to capture risk associated with connections as follows:  low risk connections: remedial costs are non-negligible (yet not significant), and the functionality is adversely affected but the functionality of the connection still conforms to the specifications.  medium risk connection: remedial costs are higher, and the functionality is adversely affected in such a way that the connection does not function as intended.  high risk connection: remedial costs are highest and there is a high risk to safety. table 2 depicts the notation for developing the tolerance interde- pendency matrix. the left column denotes preceding component sequencing while the top row denotes succeeding component sequencing. for a sample completed tolerance interdependency matrix, the reader is directed to appendix a which corresponds to the case study presented in this paper. a fully developed serialization of a dsm is future work. for the initial version, we serialise dsms in a comma separate format (csv). column and row headers are represented using the format (with all spaces in labels replaced by underscore _): cell entries are a list of symbols in square brackets separated by semicolons based on a simple coding system: f = flatness tolerance, pa: parallelism tolerance, po: position tolerance, pe: perpendicularity tolerance (e.g., [f,po] means the corresponding cell entry has flatness and position tolerance sensitivity). for example, the first three columns and rows of the example dsm in appendix a is serialised in csv format as follows: 4.3. operationalizing tolerancedm in this section, we describe the task of semantic enrichment for aug- menting a bim with tolerance sensitive relations. these new relations are then used to provide project stakeholders with a range of query services concerned with identifying components in the bim for which tolerance is a critical concern. 4.3.1. bim semantic enrichment within the context of bim, a building component (i.e., an object) consists of a type, e.g., ifcdoor, and a unique identifier, e.g., a guid. components can be assigned to one or more geometric representations, e.g., ifcrepresentation including 2d/3d surface representations etc. an table 2 tolerance interdependency matrix notation. c1 c2 c3 1 c1 2 c1 n c1 1 c2 2 c2 n c2 1 c3 2 c3 n c3 1 c1 m11        mi1 c1 2 c1   n c1  1 c2   c2 2 c2  n c2  1 c3  c3 2 c3  n c3 m1j   ..   mij n-ary relation has a type, e.g., ifcrelvoidselement, and is assigned to n components, meaning those components. the relation holds between that an instance of a bim, denoted b, consists of a set of building com- ponents c and relations r between those components, b = c  r. each component in c belongs to a hierarchy of building entity class types, e.g., ifc classes ifcroot, ifcproject, ifcdoor etc. each component has zero or more geometric representations such as 3d meshes, 2d polygonal footprints, etc. this research denotes a geometric representation g of component c using the predicate rep(g, e). let s1, ,sm be a set of pre- defined spatial relations defined over specific types of geometric rep- resentations such as intersects, meets_flush, is_flat, etc. for brevity, a tuple of building components c1, ,ck in ck (for k > 0) is considered to satisfy a given spatial relation si, denoted si (c1, ,ck), if their corre- sponding geometric representations satisfy the spatial relation, si (g1, , gk) such that rep(gj,ej) for 1  j  k. bim augmentation consists of identifying new tolerance sensitive re- lations that hold between tuples of components in c, and adding these relations to the set of bim relations r. in this first version of toler- ancedm, a general tolerancesensitiverelation relation is defined within the ifc standard. as shown in fig. 6, the tolerance sensitive relation is a subclass of ifcrelconnects; in keeping with ifc naming conventions the new relation is called tmsreltolerancesensitiveconnects. the ifcrelconnects relation has been chosen as a suitable superclass owing to the semantics of that ifc class expressing a connectivity relationship that connects objects under some criteria [such that] sub- types of the relationship define the applicable object types for the con- nectivity relationship and the semantics of the particular connectivity [49]. ifcrelconnectselements was also a viable candidate, however this was rejected as it is constrained to be a binary relationship that always holds between exactly two entities. tolerance sensitivity, as an abstract relationship, requires more flexibility. for example, flatness is more appropriately modelled as a unary relation. ifcpropertysets were also under consideration as a means of inte- grating tolerancedm into ifc. however, property sets assign properties to products, rather than expressing new relationships between products. tolerancedm takes the modelling stance that tolerance as a concept is captured most appropriately, with respect to semantics as a relationship that can hold between products. that is, many kinds of tolerances are relative between product instances, e.g., parallelism is a tolerance on the relative orientation of two products. in terms of scope for the first version of tolerancedm, the assignment of numerical values to tolerance parameters is kept at a general level (also referred to as tolerance allocation in product design), e.g., speci- fying an exact numerical positional distance threshold for a particular tmsrellocation relation instance. the issue from a modelling perspec- tive is that various construction projects need significant flexibility in how numerical information is to be interpreted. for example, consid- ering flatness one option would be to enforce a flatness metric to define a threshold, although any chosen metric may conflict with an organisations preferred standard approach. thus, rather than enforcing metrics and structure prematurely, all tmsreltolerancesensitiver- elations have an optional data attribute that refers to an ifcpro- pertyset. this provides a high level of versatility and may later be revised when further evidence has been collected on the most useful ways of introducing more structure into these metrics, from industry practitioner interaction and case study analyses (as part of the idef5 refinement and validation modelling development stage). as described in section 3.4, a more detailed treatment of mitigation is left for future version of tolerancedm and is thus mitigation concepts automationinconstruction141(2022)1043948 c. rausch et al. are not integrated into ifc in this first version. also, tmsriskcategory is a subclass of ifcroot in this version of tolerancedm. this relationship was omitted from the diagram to reduce visual clutter. the first version of tolerancedm supports 3d meshes as the geom-  in reality, a building is not static, and components continuously deform (e.g., expand or shrink). the bim designer may therefore intentionally leave a gap between two components with contact so that any building movement would not lead to physical clash be- fig. 6. uml class diagram depicting that the new tmsreltolerancesensitiveconnects relation (and the refining subclasses are a subclass of ifcrelconnects within the ifc standard. etry representations for components. a uniform treatment of disparate geometric representations from a bim/ifc is achieved through ifco- penshells default delaunay triangulation. the geometry processing typically takes a few minutes for a bim with 104 objects but only must occur once. a 3d point pi(xi,yi,zi) is a 3-tuple of real numbers. a 3d triangle is three vertices defined by distinct 3d points p1, p2, p3. a 3d mesh g is a set of 3d triangles referred to as faces. the distance between two meshes g1, g2 is the minimum distance between every pair of tri- angles ti,tj such that ti is a face in g1, and tj is a face in g2. 4.3.2. inferring contact in bim in this version of tolerancedm, it is assumed that semantic contact information has been omitted from the original ifc, e.g., no products are assigned the ifcrelconnectselement relation, due to a modelling over- sight. if such semantic information is available then the task of intro- ducing tolerance relations is simplified, as semantic contact does not need to firstly be inferred based solely on the geometry of the products. a key challenge in tolerance-based model augmentation is inferring spatial contact between components. the primary source of information used to infer contact is the geometry associated with bim components. however, contact between two components does not imply that their geometric representations have zero distance between them in a bim: tween them.  the bim may be modelled at a reduced lod meaning that certain joining components (e.g., bolts, gusset plates, etc.) are omitted.  the exact placement of components may not be precisely known, especially in the earlier stages of design. in this case, the geometry in a bim may only be a coarse approximation of the intended final placement, and thus, geometries of two components may be disconnected although the designer intends that they have contact. this is also reflected in different model view definitions (mvds) that may be used in a project  given certain views, some components will be omitted from an mvd, resulting in contact being more compli- cated to infer explicitly from the raw geometry during model ex- change between stakeholders. an automated tolerance management software tool that has industry value and impact must nonetheless be capable of inferring the designers intention of spatial contact between such components in the design. thus, the inference of a contact relation between two components is only a hypothesis, justified by evidence in the form of the given geometric representations in the bim, and background knowledge about physics, building construction, and bim levels of development. for clarity, we distinguish these concepts with the terms intended contact (i.e., cases where the designer intends components to have contact) and geometric contact (i.e., when the 3d geometric representations of two components automationinconstruction141(2022)1043949 c. rausch et al. has zero distance between them).1 therefore, despite bim components not strictly achieving geometric contact, it is argued that the intention of contact is represented by in- formation in the given (disconnected) geometric configuration and the semantics of the component types, within the context of tacit knowledge about buildings. for example, a knowledgeable construction engineer will be confident that certain structural components in an assembly are intended to have contact with other components due to:  the spatial arrangement of the components (proximity, orientation).  the component types (i.e., braces typically connect with beams).  the necessity of their contact for a coherent bim  i.e., if they did not have contact, then the parts would be illogically floating in free space and thus the bim would not be stable, safe nor constructible. the task of hypothetically inferring contact relations can be addressed within a framework of logical abduction. for simplicity, in this first version, an optimistic (or aggressive) inference policy is adopted. that is, if the distance between two component (or part) ge- ometries is within a specified threshold then contact is hypothesized. based on the lod framework used in this research [19], a minimum level of development required for tolerancedm is lod 200. at this level, elements are considered to be generic geometric placeholders, but may be recognizable as the components they represent particularly for rectilinear objects such as concrete footings or structural steel members. at lod 100, elements are not considered to be geometric representa- tions and therefore there is not enough information to infer contact between components. having generated contact relations, a contact graph is subsequently derived by taking components (or parts) as nodes, and contact relations between components (or parts) as edges between the corresponding nodes. a set of contact relations is valid if the contact graph is connected, i.e., there is a path through the contact graph between any pair of nodes. if the set of contact relations is invalid, then some components may be free-floating without ultimately being supported by foundation com- ponents, suggesting that either necessary contact relations have erro- neously not been inferred, or that the bim cannot be constructed. for example, fig. 7 illustrates an example of a derived contact graph. components are represented by small red boxes (graph nodes) and contact between components is represented by thin blue cylinders (graph edges). nodes have been placed approximately in the centre of the corresponding component mesh (calculated as the mean of the mesh vertices). red nodes can be seen to not have any connecting edges and thus this particular set of hypothesized contact relations is invalid, requiring the distance threshold for inferring contact to be increased. 4.3.3. bim tolerance analysis and querying having inferred contact relations, a tolerance interdependency matrix is used to augment a bim with tolerance sensitive relations. the matrix identifies connections and tolerance risks in those connections. the tolerance interdependency matrix utilized to develop tolerancedm can be re-used as a benchmark for next projects of the same type. users can then add/remove connections or change the associated tolerance risks based on the type of the project, thus saving time required for the initial setup of tolerancedm. the pseudocode algorithm is as follows. algorithm 1. augmenting bim with tolerance sensitive relations. imply geometric or 1 these concepts are different from the semantic relation ifcrelconnects ifcreltoler- which does not ancesensitiveconnects is derived from a bim using abduction, e.g., if they are justified by background knowledge and consistent with current observations. our connection finding algorithm is designed to be configurable, so users can refine it by object type, path criticality, node connectivity, etc. and can optionally introduce all found contact relations as new instances of ifcrelconnects. intended contact. fig. 7. derived contact graph for the simple structure bim geometry. for example, table 3 presents a tolerance interdependency matrix that consists of just one cell indicating that the contact between slabs and columns has a high risk (i.e., red colour)  in this case corresponding to a positional tolerance (i.e., po). information about the specific impact is also optionally encoded in the matrix, i.e., the example matrix indicates that the risk is to constructability. each instance c1, c2 of an ifcslab and ifccolumn such that they have contact (as derived in the previous section) results in a new tolerance sensitive relation being created between c1, c2. fig. 8 illustrates an extract of the knowledge graph that shows how the original ifc model is augmented with the new tolerance information in the form of relations and risk category entities. given an augmented bim, a wide range of queries q1q6 can be executed:  q1: finding all components/parts that occur in an intended contact relation.  q2: finding all components/parts that occur in a tolerance sensitive relation.  q3: filtering q1, q2 according to risk level (low, medium, high).  q4: filtering q1, q2 according to risk type (i.e., structural safety, constructability, aesthetic, functionality).  q5: filtering q1, q2 according to component/part types (e.g., slabs, columns, etc.).  q6: applying any combination of filtering options q3q5. statistics can also be derived based on the above query results, as enumerated in s1s3 below. for example, for a given component, one can count the number of other components that it has contact with, referred to as the degree of contact (i.e., using graph theory terminology in the context of the contact graph).  s1: number of contact relations that a component/part occurs in (degree of contact)  s2: number of tolerance sensitive relations that a component/part occurs in (degree of tolerance sensitivity)  s3: taking the results from q6 and applying s1, s2 (degree of query- refined contact or query-refined tolerance sensitivity) fig. 9 illustrates a scatterplot comparing contact degree with component type for the simple structure bim (corresponding to sta- tistic s1). each data point (x symbol) is a component in the bim. the x- axis categorises components according to their type (e.g., slabs, col- umns, etc.). the y-axis measures the degree of contact, i.e., the number of other components that a given component (marked x) has contact automationinconstruction141(2022)10439410 c. rausch et al. table 3 an example tolerance interdependency matrix. ifccolumn ifcslab po (constructability) be considered to be fully within the lod 350 designation). two bims are used in this demonstration. the simple structure bim (presented in section 4.3) was developed as a prototype project in canada. due to the simplicity of its building assembly, this bim is investigated in this paper as a working model for developing tolerancedm. the second bim (oastler) is a large public building with steel structure, composite steel fig. 8. extract of knowledge graph to illustrate how the bim is augmented with tolerance information. the original ifc file contained two products repre- sented by the red nodes in the graph (ifcslab and ifcbeam). the tolerancedm reasoning system determined these products to have contact and based on the dsm (table 3) the new tolerance sensitive relation tmsrellocation is injected into the bim (blue node) with its associated riskcategory entity (green node). (for interpretation of the refer- ences to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) with. as an example of the analytical support that tolerancedm provides, the scatterplot shows that slabs (as a class type) have both the highest contact degree, and the largest range of contact degrees, followed by beams, columns, members, and building element proxies. this suggests that slabs make up the contact hubs of the construction. buildings, building storeys and the site have no explicit geometric representation in the given bim, and thus have no contact relations.2 to contrast contact and tolerance sensitivity, fig. 10 illustrates a scatterplot comparing tolerance sensitive degree and component type in the simple structure bim, based on the matrix in table 3, corre- sponding to statistic s2. comparing figs. 9 and 10, it is observed that fig. 10 illustrates the subset of contact relations that correspond to an entry in the dsm in table 3. 5. functional demonstration this functional demonstration of tolerancedm focuses on consoli- dating tolerance domain knowledge pertaining to bim lod 300 (since there are instances where both bims do not contain parts necessary for coordination of the element with nearby of attached objects, they cannot 2 components are organized into building storeys through the ifcrelcontai- nedinspatialstructure relation (and, in turn, storeys are composed to form the whole building through ifcreldecomposes relation). the building storey could be assigned to the set of all geometric representations of contained components, providing some interpretation of contact between building storeys, buildings, and other components. deck-slabs, curtain walls, glazing, masonry panels, suspended floors and a roof. all ground floor slabs are comprised of reinforced concrete and bear directly onto the ground. the cost for this 7500 m2 building was approximately $37.4 m. the bespoke curvature of the building and anodized aluminum fins attached to the structure, give it a distinctive architectural feature, while adding important tolerance sensitive con- nections. table 4 presents geometry and model statistics of the two bims  of particular note is the difference in bim sizes, both in the number of building components, and the complexity of geometric representations as 3d meshes, thus reflecting the ability to gauge the scalability of tolerancedm. ifc bims were parsed using the ifcopenshell tool suite,3 to extract component unique identifiers, component class types, and 3d meshes. the reasoning engine was developed using a combination of the logic programming languages answer set programming and prolog, based on the inspace3d system [50]. asp and prolog constitute the theoretical foundation of our software system in that every inference can be logi- cally derived, thus verifiable and explainable. this is particularly impor- tant in the scope of tolerance management due to irreducible deviations from bim geometry (two components are almost touching) from design intents (the components should be connected). therefore, each toler- ance relationship is contingent to a number of default assumptions and educated guesses about tolerance relationships. asp and prolog provides modifiable and extensible encodings for this additional knowledge in the form of defeasible rules, so the process of augmenting bim with toler- ance relationships is transparent and verifiable. 3 http://www.ifcopenshell.org/ automationinconstruction141(2022)10439411 c. rausch et al. firstly, the bim was parsed into logic programming facts of the following form representing each component unique identifier and class type: the bim geometries were parsed into facts about geometric repre- sentations of 3d meshes, consisting of 3d point vertices, triangular faces, and face-normals (which are used to determine whether a given face is part of the top, bottom or sides of a product geometry): the 3d axis aligned bounding box of each mesh was derived, rep- resented as two 3d points (the left lower front corner, and right upper back corner). these are expressed as facts such as: bounding boxes were scaled and translated into positive integer representations for more efficient processing: contact was hypothesized based on bounding box intersection. approximately 13,000 contact relations were derived out of approxi- mately 5.4  106 distinct candidate pairs (i.e., where every pair of meshes is a candidate hypothesis, resulting in n(n-1)/2  5.4  106 with n = 3300). two boxes intersect if their projections intersect in all three axes, as implemented in the following asp program: fig. 11 illustrates the derived contact graph for the oastler bim. a tolerance interdependency matrix was created for the oastler functional demonstration (appendix a). there are three main steps used to infer the tolerance sensitive relations specified in the matrix. as described previously, the first step is to infer spatial contact relations between all components (discussed in more detail in section 6.1). class types such as foundations, stone cladding, internal partitions, and office doors were not explicitly defined in the given ifc of the oastler building, and thus for the second step we hand-crafted a simple set of rules tailored to the oastler bim to identify which objects belonged to the relevant project-specific class. the third step consisted of deriving tolerance sensitive relations according to the class types specified in the matrix, and spatial contact relations inferred in the first step. fig. 12 illustrates the fragments of the bim that correspond to each cell in the matrix that is assigned a tolerance sensitive type. in total, 10,387 tolerance sensitive relations were inferred: 7063 flatness; 2173 position; 189 perpendicular; 962 parallel. having inferred the tolerance sensitive relations and added them to the bim, a range of rich queries (or filters) can be applied. fig. 13 il- lustrates four such examples: (1) finding components that have a tolerance sensitive relationship with a given specific component (e.g., the illustrated fin). (24) finding pairs of components that have a tolerance sensitive relation of a specific type (parallelism, position, flatness) where the preceding component is on a given building story (i. e., floor 3.0 in the example). in both the simple structure and oastler, using the mesh bounding boxes resulted in some components not having contact with any other component. in such cases, the contact graph is not complete, and thus not all components are reachable from every other component through the contact graph, as illustrated in fig. 14. methods such as delaunay triangulation can be used to find minimum distances between components such that the contact graph is complete. the computational runtimes for three derivation and analysis tasks are presented in table 5. the longest task is parsing the bim to derive the mesh geometries. inferring all 13,000 contact relations of the oastler completed within 1 min, which is fast enough to be practical for con- struction planning. column 3 entries indicate runtimes for deductive reasoning, i.e., compute the consequences of inference rules. column 4 entries indicate runtimes for abductive reasoning, i.e., check compati- bility of these consequences with domain constraints and amend infer- ence rules if necessary. the validity check when applied to the (non- trivial) buffered bounding box case of the oastler finishes within 21 s fig. 9. scatterplot comparing contact degree with component class type for the simple structure. fig. 10. scatterplot comparing tolerance sensitivity degree (based on the ma- trix in table 3) with component class type for the simple structure bim. automationinconstruction141(2022)10439412 c. rausch et al. table 4 geometry and contact relation statistics for the demonstration bims. bim components meshes triangles inferred contact relations contact degree simple structure oastler 211 3355 206 3330 54,864 678,860 252 13,514 min 0 0 mean 2.45 8.12 max 40 515 automationinconstruction141(2022)10439413 c. rausch et al. fig. 11. derived contact graph visualised with the oastler bim geometry (left) and the graph visualised in isolation (right). fig. 12. filtering oastler components that have a tolerance sensitive relation based on class type, as specified in the employed interdependency matrix (label format is: <preceding component> (cid:0) <succeeding component>). and is again fast enough to scale to large bims. 5.1. future work 5.1.1. intelligently inferring contact relations as part of future work, a more comprehensive abduction (hypo- thetical reasoning) framework is being developed to intelligently infer a plausible set of contact relations as a basis for reasoning about tolerance sensitivity. the comprehensive abduction framework that is being developed is formulated as follows.  contact relations between each pair of components are the abducibles (candidate hypotheses). that is, if there are n components, then there are n2 component pairs, and because contact is symmetric and re- flexive, then there are n(n-1)/2 distinct candidate hypotheses.  each hypothesis (that some pair of components have contact) must be justified by evidence, i.e., the geometric information provided in the bim (primarily distance and relative orientation) and the component class types. for example, in order for a contact relation to be justified, the distance between components must be within a specified threshold, and in some cases component surfaces must be parallel so that they can meet flush when moved together. automationinconstruction141(2022)10439414 c. rausch et al. fig. 13. four filter examples that demonstrate the versatility of tolerancedm.  a scenario is a set of hypothesized contact relations. thus, the size of the scenario space is o(2n), i.e., exponential in the number of components.  a valid scenario is one that satisfies all domain constraints, such as no free floating components.  scenarios are ranked by metrics, such as preferring scenarios that minimise the number of hypotheses.  the abduction task is to find the highest-ranking valid scenarios. a spatial reasoning extension of asp is being utilized [51,52] to efficiently prune the search space of valid hypotheses. this is achieved by defining a series of increasingly accurate conditions that are neces- sary (but not sufficient) for meshes to satisfy distance and orientation constraints. for example, the following spatial constraints are necessary for two meshes to be within a threshold distance d, and each succes- sively increases in computational complexity and accuracy: fig. 14. example illustrating free floating component groups. table 5 computational runtimes for bim augmentation tasks performed on the demonstration bims. bim time taken to parse ifc geometries into 3d meshes (seconds, 2dp) time taken to infer contact relations (seconds, 2dp) time taken to check contact validity with buffered bounding boxes (seconds, 2dp) simple structure oastler 3.00 s 83.00 s 0.38 s 57.65 s 0.03 s 20.14 s automationinconstruction141(2022)104394151.2.3.4.free oa(cid:2)ng group c. rausch et al.  the intersection of bounding boxes buffered by d.  the intersection of component-aligned bounding boxes buffered by distance d.  distance to hyperplane of separation being less than d/2. the domain constraint determining contact graph validity is also being refined. in particular, the free floating constraint is not sufficient  components need to be supported so that they are stable within the assembly. being supported implies contact, but also involves other component-specific criteria, the evaluation of which may require physics and statics simulators and corresponding qualitative spatial rules, e.g., a component that has contact with a slab from below is supported by that slab. the revised validity condition is thus that every component is transitively supported by a foundation component. this leads to yet another aspect of future work which is the auto- mated enrichment of bim class types. in bim standards such as ifc, certain types of component classes are not defined although they are critical to reasoning about tolerance. for example, a slab may be laid at the base of a design as the foundation, although the class of the component in the bim is ifcslab (and no such class as ifcfoundation currently exists). thus, logical rules are needed to reason about whether a component is a particular subclass, such as foundations. 5.1.2. expanding the tolerance domain model as illustrated in fig. 1, the purpose for the first version of toler- ancedm is to provide a way to semantically enrich bim with tolerance management concepts. in this paper, we outline how such an enriched bim could be queried, however future work will expand upon the use cases to explore the following: automated tolerance analysis, automated tolerance synthesis, visualization of project risks related to tolerances, interactive development of tolerance interdependency matrix, and construction progress monitoring while considering tolerances. the developed version of tolerancedm will enable users to interactively edit the default tolerance interdependency matrix and adjust it to the pe- culiarities of each project. for progress monitoring, tolerancedm will be developed further to assess the compliance of installed components with the specified tolerances by comparing as-built data (e.g., a point cloud) with bim as well as comparing the as-built data over time. this function will be linked with 4d bim in order to check whether the installed components comply with the specified tolerances when components in critical connections are installed. this is particularly important when considering building movement (i.e., geometric changes over time as a result of deflection, drying shrinkage, foundation movement). for example, cladding systems should be capable of incorporating de- viations of the structural assembly due to its self-weight and other loads applied afterwards as well as deviations of workmanship when installing the cladding system. the developed version of tolerancedm will assess whether deviations of the structural assembly and cladding system comply with the specified tolerances at the time of installation. further, the development team will conduct a more comprehensive refinement process through structured interviews with domain experts across the industry. in addition, tolerancedm will be further scrutinized and tested on several large-scale construction projects. 6. conclusion the specification, control and management of tolerances is a vital component to project success in the construction industry. while the use of building information models (bims) outline the nominal position, form, and composition of a construction assembly, they currently lack sufficient information and architecture (i.e., framework) for outlining permissible deviations or tolerances. as such, two distinct challenges arise in many projects. first, as bims undergo stages of refinement during design, any discrepancies between lod iterations should be subject to a tolerance check in order to validate or abstract the results of uncertain and/or indefinite information contained in bims. a holistic approach to manage and document tolerances is highly valuable (yet currently elusive) to explicate requirements about bims with specific lods, as it provides a common understanding of how much a bim can be trusted. secondly, dimensional variability during construction can propagate to cause expensive and time-consuming tolerance issues (predominately between the interfaces of components and assemblies). despite previous attempts to develop and address a holistic tolerance management framework, no known work to date is organized into a practical and automated process. current tools for tolerance manage- ment require a significant time and process investment being made on each project.4 not only are such tools predicated on manual practices, but they also require extensive domain knowledge on tolerance theory. as a result, no mainstream automated tolerance management practices have emerged within the construction industry. this paper addresses these challenges by introducing a domain model (i.e., tolerancedm) that can run in parallel to typical design processes. tolerancedm takes inputs in the form of a dependency structure matrix, which outlines the tolerance sensitive relations be- tween components and parts of an overall construction assembly. using spatial reasoning and an inference engine, tolerance sensitive relations are automatically identified, parsed, and enriched on the input bim. as illustrated in two case studies, an initial bim is semantically enriched for tolerance management-focused visualization and querying. this enrichment is shown to be effective even when key connection details are not present in an initial bim (i.e., lod 200 or lod 300). as evi- denced in the runtime on both a small and large bim (i.e., runtime in the order of minutes), tolerancedm is shown to be effective and practical. the direct beneficiaries of tolerancedm are practitioners whose work centres on the modelling of assembly connections, simulation of con- struction sequencing, and risk managers who make informed decisions about product and process design in construction. tolerancedm is a functional extension to existing clash-detection tools in bim by providing more sophisticated clash results and information with respect to tolerance management. declaration of competing interest the authors declare that they have no competing financial or per- sonal interests that have influenced the research work reported in this paper. acknowledgements the authors acknowledge the financial support of the natural sci- ences and engineering research council of canada (nserc). the au- thors gratefully acknowledge the independent research fund denmark for their financial support of the project intelligent software healing environments (dff ftp1). 4 such investment is currently only justified in bespoke and complex megaprojects such as iter tokamak projectin cadarache france [10]. automationinconstruction141(2022)10439416 c. rausch et al. appendix a. tolerance interdependency matrix for oastler functional demonstration flatness tolerance, pa: parallelism tolerance, po: position tolerance, pe: perpendicularity tolerance. red = high risk, orange = med risk, green = low risk. appendix b. tolerancedm specification in express automationinconstruction141(2022)10439417 c. rausch et al. automationinconstruction141(2022)10439418 c. rausch et al. references [1] v.s. kalasapudi, p. tang, y. turkan, computationally efficient change analysis of piece-wise cylindrical building elements for proactive project control, autom. constr. 81 (2017) 300312, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2017.04.001. [2] m. arashpour, a. heidarpour, a. akbar nezhad, z. hosseinifard, n. chileshe, r. hosseini, performance-based control of variability and tolerance in off-site manufacture and assembly: optimization of penalty on poor production quality, constr. manag. econ. 38 (2019) 502514, https://doi.org/10.1080/ 01446193.2019.1616789. [3] c.t. milberg, i.d. tommelein, tolerance and constructability of soldier piles in slurry walls, j. perform. constr. facil. 24 (2009) 120127, https://doi.org/ 10.1061/(asce)cf.1943-5509.0000079. [4] n. puri, y. turkan, toward automated dimensional quality control of precast concrete elements using design bim, wit trans. built environ. 169 (2017) 203210, https://doi.org/10.2495/bim170191. [5] c. rausch, framework for the strategic management of dimensional variability of structures in modular construction, retrieved jan 1, 2020 from, http://hdl.handle. net/10012/10789, 2016. [6] c.t. milberg, application of tolerance management to civil systems, retrieved feb 7, 2020 from, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1 .1.308.5119&rep=rep1&type=pdf, 2006. [7] t. acharjee, investigating accumulation of tolerances and its impact on reliability of job site installation, retrieved feb 2, 2020 from, https://etd.ohiolink.ed u/pg_10?0::no:10:p10_accession_num:ucin1172857125, 2007. [8] d.k. ballast, handbook of construction tolerances, john wiley & sons, hoboken (nj), 2007, 978-0471931515. [9] c.t. milberg, i.d. tommelein, methods for managing tolerance compatibility: windows in cast-in-place concrete, j. constr. eng. manag. 146 (2020) 111, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)co.1943-7862.0001728. [10] c. rausch, m. nahangi, c. haas, j. west, kinematics chain based dimensional variation analysis of construction assemblies using building information models and 3d point clouds, autom. constr. 75 (2017) 3344, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. autcon.2016.12.001. [11] m.s. enshassi, s. walbridge, j.s. west, c.t. haas, integrated risk management framework for tolerance-based mitigation strategy decision support in modular construction projects, j. manag. eng. 35 (2019), https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce) me.1943-5479.0000698. [12] s. talebi, improvement of dimensional tolerance management in construction, retrieved march 3, 2020 from, http://eprints.hud.ac.uk/id/eprint/35070, 2019. [13] y. shahtaheri, c. rausch, j. west, c. haas, m. nahangi, managing risk in modular construction using dimensional and geometric tolerance strategies, autom. constr. 83 (2017) 303315, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2017.03.011. [14] p. vaha, t. heikkila, p. kilpelainen, m. jarviluoma, e. gambao, extending automation of building construction  survey on potential sensor technologies and robotic applications, autom. constr. 36 (2013) 168178, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.autcon.2013.08.002. [15] f. bos, r. wolfs, z. ahmed, t. salet, additive manufacturing of concrete in construction: potentials and challenges of 3d concrete printing, virtual phys. prototyp. 11 (2016) 209225, https://doi.org/10.1080/17452759.2016.1209867. [16] j. xu, r.a. buswell, p. kinnell, i. biro, j. hodgson, n. konstantinidis, l. ding, inspecting manufacturing precision of 3d printed concrete parts based on geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, autom. constr. 117 (2020) 115, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2020.103233. [17] k.s. saidi, t. bock, c. georgoulas, robotics in construction, in: anonymous springer handbook of robotics, springer, 2016, 14931520 25228692. [18] m. bolpagni, a.l.c. ciribini, the information modeling and the progression of data-driven projects, in: proceedings of the cib world building congress 2016: intelligent built environment for life: volume v - advancing products and services, 2016, pp. 296307. https://trepo.tuni.fi/bitstream/handle /10024/128445/wbc16_vol_3.pdf?sequence=1#page=300. [19] bimforum, level of development (lod) specification part i & commentary, 2020. [20] y. zhong, y. qin, m. huang, w. lu, w. gao, y. du, automatically generating assembly tolerance types with an ontology-based approach, comput. aided des. 45 (2013) 12531275, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cad.2013.06.006. [21] y. qin, w. lu, q. qi, x. liu, m. huang, p.j. scott, x. jiang, towards an ontology- supported case-based reasoning approach for computer-aided tolerance specification, knowl.-based syst. 141 (2018) 129147, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. knosys.2017.11.013. [22] s. goetz, b. schleich, ontology-based representation of tolerancing and design knowledge for an automated tolerance specification of product concepts, proc. cirp 92 (2020) 194199, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2020.03.128. [23] p. haghighi, p. mohan, n. kalish, p. vemulapalli, j.j. shah, j.k. davidson, toward automatic tolerancing of mechanical assemblies: first-order gd&t schema development and tolerance allocation, j. comput. inf. sci. eng. 15 (2015) 19, https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4030939. [24] z. peng, m. huang, y. zhong, z. tang, construction of ontology for auto- interpretable tolerance semantics in skin model, j. ambient. intell. humaniz. comput. 11 (2020) 35453558, https://doi.org/10.1007/s12652-019-01497-7. [25] y. qie, l. qiao, y. cui, n. anwer, a domain ontology for assembly tolerance design, in: asme 2017 international mechanical engineering congress and exposition 58356, 2017, pp. 110, https://doi.org/10.1115/imece2017-72526. [26] c.m. creveling, tolerance design: a handbook for developing optimal specifications, prentice hall, new jersey, united states, 1997, 0133052346. [27] a.c. thornton, variation risk management: focusing quality improvements in product development and production, john wiley & sons, new jersey, united states, 2003, 978-0-471-44679-8. [28] aci, american concrete institute committee 117, commentary on standard specifications for tolerances for concrete construction and materials, aci 11706, 2002. [29] g. henzold, geometrical dimensioning and tolerancing for design, manufacturing and inspection: a handbook for geometrical product specification using iso and asme standards, butterworth-heinemann, 2006, 978-0750667388. [30] m. vorlicek, m. holicky, analysis of dimensional accuracy of building structures, elsevier science ltd, 1989, 978-0444988751. [31] v.s. kalasapudi, y. turkan, p. tang, toward automated spatial change analysis of mep components using 3d point clouds and as-designed bim models, in: 2014 2nd international conference on 3d vision 2, 2014, pp. 145152, https://doi.org/ 10.1109/3dv.2014.105. [32] c. milberg, i. tommelein, role of tolerances and process capability data in product and process design integration, constr. res. congr. 2003 (2003) 18, https://doi. org/10.1061/40671(2003)93. [33] l. koskela, an exploration towards a production theory and its application to construction, retrieved march 20, 2020 from, https://www.vttresearch.com/sites /default/files/pdf/publications/2000/p408.pdf, 2000. [34] a. landin, p. kampe, industrializing the construction sector through innovationtolerance dilemma, in: proceedings of cib world building conference 2007-387, cape town, 2007, pp. 25962606. https://lup.lub.lu.se/record/ 7865606. [35] s. talebi, p. tzortzopoulos, l. koskela, m. poshdar, i.d. tommelein, a. tezel, r. antunes, a vision for the future of the computer-aided tolerance management in construction based on the lessons learned from manufacturing, in: proceedings of the cib world building conference, 2019, 2019, pp. 1721. http://www.wbc2019. hk/index.html. [36] c. rausch, c. edwards, c. haas, benchmarking and improving dimensional quality on modular construction projectsa case study, int. j. industrialized constr. 1 (2020) 221, https://doi.org/10.29173/ijic212. [37] c. rausch, m. nahangi, c. haas, w. liang, monte carlo simulation for tolerance analysis in prefabrication and offsite construction, autom. constr. 103 (2019) 300314, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.03.026. [38] p.c. benjamin, c.p. menzel, r.j. mayer, f. fillion, m.t. futrell, p.s. dewitte, m. lingineni, idef5 method report, inf. integr. concurr. eng. (iice). 21 (1994) 1175. [39] c. rausch, m. nahangi, m. perreault, c.t. haas, j. west, optimum assembly planning for modular construction components, j. comput. civ. eng. (2016) 114, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)cp.1943-5487.0000605. [40] s. talebi, l. koskela, p. tzortzopoulos, m. kagioglou, c. rausch, f. elghaish, m. poshdar, causes of defects associated with tolerances in construction: a case study, j. manag. eng. 37 (2021) 112, https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)me.1943- 5479.0000914. [41] c. rausch, c. haas, automated shape and pose updating of building information model elements from 3d point clouds, autom. constr. 124 (2021) 114, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2021.103561. [42] s. talebi, l. koskela, p. tzortzopoulos, m. kagioglou, tolerance management in construction: a conceptual framework, sustainability 12 (2020) 124, https://doi. org/10.3390/su12031039. [43] s. talebi, l. koskela, p. tzortzopoulos, m. kagioglou, a. krulikowski, deploying geometric dimensioning and tolerancing in construction, buildings 10 (2020) 129, https://doi.org/10.3390/buildings10040062. [44] y. hong, t. chang, a comprehensive review of tolerancing research, int. j. prod. res. 40 (2002) 24252459, https://doi.org/10.1080/00207540210128242. [45] b.r. fischer, mechanical tolerance stackup and analysis, crc press, boca raton, florida, 2011, 978-1439815724. [46] r.c. dorf, a. kusiak, handbook of design, manufacturing and automation, wiley- interscience, new jersey, united states, 1994, 978-0-471-55218-5. [47] d. en, execution of steel structures and aluminium structures-part 2: technical requirements for steel structures, in: 2011 european committee for standardization, brussels, belgium, 2008. retrieved nov 30, 2020 from, https ://shop.bsigroup.com/productdetail/?pid=000000000030238990. [48] a. krulikowski, fundamentals of geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, cengage learning, boston, united states, 2012, 978-1111129828. [49] buildingsmart, ifc4 add2 - addendum 2 [official], buildingsmart international ltd., united kingdom, 2020. retrieved may 28, 2021 from, https://standards.buil dingsmart.org/ifc/release/ifc4/add2/html/schema/ifckernel/lexical/ifcrel connects.htm. automationinconstruction141(2022)10439419 c. rausch et al. [50] c. schultz, m. bhatt, inspace3d: a middleware for built environment data access and analytics, proc. comput. sci. 18 (2013) 8089, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. procs.2013.05.171. [51] b. li, j. dimyadi, r. amor, c. schultz, qualitative and traceable calculations for building codes, in: proceedings of the 37th cib w78 information technology for construction conference, 2020, pp. 6984. https://doi.org/10.46421/2706-6568. 37.2020.paper006. [52] b. li, j. teizer, c. schultz, non-monotonic spatial reasoning for safety analysis in construction, in: proceedings of the 22nd international symposium on principles and practice of declarative programming, 2020, pp. 112, https://doi.org/ 10.1145/3414080.3414096. automationinconstruction141(2022)10439420

==== TABLES ====

==== IMAGES ====
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page1_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page1_img2.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page1_img3.png
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page5_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page5_img2.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page6_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page7_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page7_img2.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page9_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page10_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page11_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page12_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page12_img2.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page14_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page14_img2.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page15_img1.jpeg
Tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of BIMs_page15_img2.jpeg

==== OCR TEXT FROM IMAGES ====
--- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page1_img1.jpeg --- pe ihe, ez elsevier --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page1_img2.jpeg --- automation in construction --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page5_img1.jpeg --- a4 domain model middleware domain model applications inference engine for direct uses 1 var pron rca rrr nnn rrr nse identifying relations querying as a designconstruction management aid, e.g., i show me constructability conflicts h show me tolerance sensitive relations to this beam l beeen eee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eed risk-based dependency future uses structure matrix dsm sn enrichment module enriched 1 automated tolerance analysis i adds tolerance relations bim i i j to bim automated tolerance synthesis rules for enriching j bim 1 interactive visualization of tolerance risks t i a initial bim --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page5_img2.jpeg --- initiating tolerancedm compliance cy develop risk-based develop lteratively refine dsm g 3 dependency structure project-specific based on project 3 matrix dsm feature map experiences 9 pe g2 a a a s, i l i a fe i l n n risk-based i i dependency project-specific - structure matrix feature map dsm i i as n 8s tolerancedm standard 5 wa tolerance class 5 9 risk category class 9 e --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page6_img1.jpeg --- bim engineers bim engineers tolerancedm decision organisation wide project specific support tool providers mo or, risk-based tolerancedm dependency structure - - - - 7 . matrix dsm reasoning engine n vv project-specific ---- feature map c generate tolerance compute sensitive relations tolerance analysis ot a a aa i n i i tolerance ew . -- l p tolerance f l p aoe eet bim entites query n l tolerance nn queries --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page7_img1.jpeg --- catum tolerance 1. 1 tolerancetype , 4. . characteristics bim entity holdsbetween tolerance sensitive 1 1. relation - holdsbetween has 1 risk category x provenance risktype spatial relation welined vi severity siinedvia likelihood mitigation --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page7_img2.jpeg --- gap tolerance between two vertical jambs for a doorway ede e se floor slab slope tolerance ce ne . a s , s floor slab a s flatness tolerance gap tolerance between two adjacent concrete slabs --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page9_img1.jpeg --- ifcrelation enumeration enumeration a tmsprovenanceenum tmsrisktypeenum normal structuralsafety special constructability ifcrelconnects specific aesthetic functionality tmsreltolerancesensitiveconnects tmsriskcategory enumeration - - tmsratingenum relatingelement ifcproduct risktype tmsrisktypeenum provenance tmsprovenanceenum severity tmsratingenum low risk 0.. tmsriskcategory likelihood tmsratingenum medium data 0..1 ifcpropertyset high a unspecified tmsrelsize tmsrelform tmsrelorientation tmsrellocation form tmsformenum orientation tmsorientationenum relatedelement lfcproduct relatedelement 0..1 lfcproduct q enumeration cormeration orientation parallelis tmsformenum msorientationenum implies straightness perpendicularity relationelement 1 flatness parallelism --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page11_img1.jpeg --- guid 3r7yqinhjjebsagodsesdrv8s guid 3r7yqinhjje8agodsesdrmw type ifcslab type lfcbeam relatingelement relatedelement guid 4r7yqixhjje8azodsesdrv3 type tmsriskcategory risktype constructability severity unspecified guid 3r7yqlhje8agodsesdrv likelihood unspecified type tmsrellocation --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page12_img1.jpeg --- comparing contact degree and component class type eevee esseses hascrnnnnrbiceeseeed - x at oq ye %, gp my y% % % % my %, % 9 % % me y component class type --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page12_img2.jpeg --- comparing tolerance sensitive degree and component class type 30 2 23 o o a i ae z 5 s % ee 0% 46 4 % co ey % my component class type --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page14_img1.jpeg --- pe lie ce ee pk my cael a we, 2 vee sbr ase ea sn x fh re ears o ie se rrs 980680 4. ne ps er ee . e ne aez a a ae ay ge a se i eat cage oa nt f 7 eee gee i 4 in een wa ae erat ey m en oy ap teton . pms ks ce a ea eo bs pe me be a wo aoe poe sss ce --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page14_img2.jpeg --- foundation slabs foundation - columns columns - curtain wall columns stabs senaeren, yey bo ne tt. eee i sl a sow 4 internal partitions - office doors slabs - curtain wall slabs - office doors curtain wall - slabs - staircases columns - roof slabs - fins internal partitions - sorbe pee, p aar we i . - in i a soesteea, a . y j --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page15_img1.jpeg --- ey s 4 yy . . filter all components that have toler chsitine velationshin with a parallelism tolerance, where the p . preceeding component is on floor 3.0 given fin component. pale ri j ie asa ay les po eee i an i an nag ee ee a a pee sss trees ye is ae filter all components that have filter all components that have position tolerance, where the flatness tolerance, where the preceeding component is on floor 3. preceeding component is on floor 3. --- text from tolerance management domain model for semantic enrichment of bims_page15_img2.jpeg --- an ta qo az ss oe 2 ta ge a ae pag ex ws a pz os a ny re a it ses 4 riv sy ny zz ns thy wal,
